_“This is just a thought experiment, just to see how much time you'll waste
thinking about these worthless documents. The correct time is zero seconds.”_  
This page is  **SPOILER HEAVY** .  
You can toggle spoilers with the 'Spoilers' tab at the top of each page.
Hidden text can also be revealed by highlighting it.  
  
Caroline as seen in a portrait in the _ Portal 2  _ chapter, _The Reunion_ .
“

She's the backbone of this facility. Pretty as a postcard, too. Sorry, fellas.
She's married. To science.  

Click to listen

— **Cave Johnson**

”  
  
An unseen character in the single-player campaign of _ Portal 2  _ ,
**Caroline** was the personal assistant to former  Aperture Science  CEO  Cave
Johnson  , until later becoming his successor. Not much is known about her
character, as she is heard at one point, briefly, through a small portion of
Cave Johnson's prerecorded audio messages. She is also mentioned in Chapter 5,
"The Escape", when the player picks up the  Oracle Turret  on the second
conveyor belt.

From the recordings, it is clear Cave Johnson holds her in high regard,
remarking that "she's the backbone of this facility".  Johnson later appointed
her as his successor as one of his dying wishes.

Although the length of her tenure as CEO is unknown, it is clear that Johnson
prized her enough to have her essence extracted into a  core  to oversee the
Facility's operations, the core of which became  GLaDOS  .

Caroline is voiced by  Ellen McLain  .

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
    * 1.1  Her fate 
  * 2  Portrait 
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Trivia 
  * 5  See also 

##  Overview

###  Her fate

When it becomes a distinct possibility that Cave Johnson may not live to see
his artificial intelligence project realised, he makes it clear that Caroline
will manage the Enrichment Center and, if need be, his place in the artificial
brain as well. As  Chell  explores the old facility with the potato battery
form of  GLaDOS  , it emerges that GLaDOS has a recollection of Cave Johnson
and unwittingly finds herself replying to his voice recording instructions in
the same manner to that of Caroline.

It becomes clear that Caroline's mind was inserted into the AI that became
GLaDOS, a fact GLaDOS silently recalls on her own as she listens to the
recordings. GLaDOS' demeanor slowly changes as her memories of Caroline
emerge, and she claims to have turned over a new leaf. After defeating
Wheatley  and regaining control of the Enrichment Center, GLaDOS thanks Chell
for being her "best friend" and for helping her realize "where Caroline lives
in her brain". The  Announcer  then proceeds to state that she has promptly
deleted Caroline from her system.

It is never made clear how much of GLaDOS was Caroline. The line "Now little
Caroline is in here too" from the closing song "  Want You Gone  " suggests
Caroline is still somewhere in GLaDOS' memory. Voice actress Ellen McLain
stated on a panel at Anime Midwest 2011 that, to her belief, Caroline is not
deleted at all.

##  Portrait

Below is a portrait of Aperture founder  Cave Johnson  , with a woman standing
beside him. Though unconfirmed, the most obvious candidate is that the woman
is Caroline.

The portrait appears in a hidden room after completing the first test chamber
in the chapter, _The Reunion_ . When found, GLaDOS will comment on the
portrait, stating that both the man and the lady seem familiar. Players will
earn the achievement "Portrait of a Lady" after the portrait is found.

