_“This is just a thought experiment, just to see how much time you'll waste
thinking about these worthless documents. The correct time is zero seconds.”_  
This page is  **SPOILER HEAVY** .  
You can toggle spoilers with the 'Spoilers' tab at the top of each page.
Hidden text can also be revealed by highlighting it.  
  
Portrait of Johnson during the 1970s era.  “

I'm Cave Johnson. I own the place.  

Click to listen

— **Cave Johnson**

”  
  
**Cave Johnson** is the founder of  Aperture Science  , which evolved from its
precursor, Aperture Fixtures and later Aperture Science Innovators. Cave
Johnson first appeared by a username and password scrawled in one of the
Rattmann's dens  during _ Portal  _ , and was fleshed out and provided with
additional details during the  _Portal_ ARG  .

In _ Portal 2  _ , Cave Johnson became a prominent character through a variety
of automated audio recordings from 1952 to as late as sometime in the 1980s.
His current status and whereabouts are unknown, but he is presumed dead due to
his exposure to the toxic by-products created as a result of refining moon
rocks.

Cave Johnson is voiced by American actor  J. K. Simmons  .

##  Contents

  * 1  History 
    * 1.1  Shower curtains 
    * 1.2  Aperture Science Innovators 
    * 1.3  Aperture 
    * 1.4  Aperture Laboratories 
  * 2  Appearances 
    * 2.1  _Portal_
    * 2.2  First _Portal 2_ ARG 
    * 2.3  _Perpetual Testing Initiative_
    * 2.4  _Aperture Desk Job_
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Trivia 
  * 5  See also 
  * 6  References 

##  History

####  Shower curtains

In 1943, Cave Johnson created Aperture Fixtures, a shower curtain
manufacturer. The precursor to Aperture Science, he selected the name because
it 'makes the curtains sound more hygienic'. He became a billionaire after
winning contracts to manufacture shower curtains for all branches of the U.S.
Military except the Navy, winning the '1943 shower curtain salesman of the
year' award.

####  Aperture Science Innovators

During his career in science, he called upon the wealthy and powerful to join
his cause for the future of science. He also employed top scientists and other
staff who were dedicated to the field, such as  Caroline  , and those lacking
common sense for the dangers inherent in scientific experimentation.  Most of
his ideas were wild and, more often than not, lethal. Some experiments
involved replacing the test subject's blood with gasoline, or injecting test
subjects with mantis DNA, while others exposed a test subject to jet engines
in order to lower the amount of water in the human body. The latter experiment
was conducted after Cave Johnson concluded that the average amount of water in
the human body 'seemed excessive'. Most of his crackpot ideas turned out to be
massive failures, leaving only a few that seemed to be remotely useful, such
as the  gels  that appear during the later stages of the game.

####  Aperture

At the time of its creation, Aperture Science Innovations had developed  the
_Aperture Science Portable Quantum Tunneling Device_ ,  a prototype to the
modern  Handheld Portal Device  Chell wields.  As such, it seems that Aperture
had already started to perfect portal technology, but was not ready to release
it to the world, under the belief that much more could be done than just
create portals. Of course, the technology was also impractical and bulky, and
was delayed by Cave's wild innovations. During the 1970s, Aperture Science had
become known as just 'Aperture', and the rise of Black Mesa and its success in
bidding for contracts pushed Cave's temper to the limit. It is also implied
that Black Mesa stole designs from Aperture and began to produce them
commercially before Aperture could do so because Johnson refused to release
the devices until they met his eccentric standard of perfection. It was around
this time that Caroline became a bigger part of Cave's life as a secretary,
and Cave became more desperate in his struggle to continue his work by
offering $60 to potential test subjects, although only rarely were test
subjects able to collect their reward due to the hazards involved.

####  Aperture Laboratories

See also:  Aperture Science  __

At some point during the 1980s, Cave Johnson had renamed the company to
Aperture Laboratories, a name that would be known far into the future.
However, the number of willing test subjects had dwindled over the years, and
out of desperation, employees and random strangers were pulled off the streets
in order to be a part of the testing. The technology had advanced greatly, and
robots had started to replace human employees. These employees then become
unfortunate victims in Cave's quest for the future of science.

During his final days, Cave stated that he had tried to purchase a number of
"moon rocks". However, his last few recordings indicated that these acquired
"moon rocks" were toxic, and resulted in a fatal illness (possibly silicosis,
a real effect from breathing dust from crushed lunar rock, as well as the
lunar material being ionized and filled with toxic compounds by cosmic
radiation, an effect found in Martian soil  [  1  ]  ). He explained that he
contracted the illness when, in one of his wild ideas, he was grinding moon
rocks together in the name of science in order to form a new type of substance
called the 'Conversion Gel', most likely named due to its ability to serve as
a portal conductor and allow portals to be placed on any surface. As the
symptoms of his terminal illness became more severe however, he decided to re-
purpose the 'conversion gel' to create new portals that would hopefully leech
the poison out of his system.

As his illness progressed, Cave's emotional state, already precarious due to
the success of his rival  Black Mesa  , began to deteriorate. It was at this
point that Cave mentioned the aphorism "When life gives you lemons, make
lemonade". As his condition became more debilitating, Cave's comments became
increasingly emphatic, resulting in advice to never give up, "get mad," and
"make life take the lemons back!". Despite his attempts to stave off fate, all
attempts to cure his affliction failed, and with little hope of a cure, he
instructed his engineers to start research on  artificial intelligence  (AI)
and  brain mapping  in the hope that his brain could be downloaded into a
computer. Cave also stated that they "should've been working on it 30 years
ago". Fearing that he would die before the release of the technology, he left
instructions that his secretary  Caroline  should take charge of Aperture
Science, and that she should be downloaded into the computer intended for him.
He stated that he knows that "she'll argue, she'll say she can't", but demands
that "[they] make her". It is presumed that Caroline was selected due to her
devotion to scientific progress, a trait admired by Cave, and also due to
their close relationship. It is unknown what became of Cave himself, but it is
presumed that he fell victim to his illness and, ultimately, to science.

##  Appearances

###  _Portal_

See also:  Portal  __

During _Portal_ when  Chell  makes her first escape  , there are several "
Rattmann  Dens" that are scattered throughout the facility. In one of them,
there are several pictures of a suited man with a small picture of a
Companion Cube  over his face, along with the words "Our Founder" found in one
of the photos.  Below the depiction from Rattmann is what appears to be a
login name and password labeled "cjohnson", with the password "tier3",
alluding to Cave Johnson himself. It would later be discovered that this could
be used on Aperture Science's own  website  , giving more insight into the
grim world of Aperture Science  .

###  First _Portal 2_ ARG

Additional details about _Portal 2_ background were provided by the first
_Portal 2_ ARG in March 2010. On those notes, Cave Johnson's life, as well as
Aperture history, look much different than in _Portal_ , foreseeing the ret-
conned Aperture history showcased in _Portal 2_ :  most notably, some of the
ARG text findings are written into the form of Cave Johnson's post-mortem
memos, implying that Johnson's consciousness was uploaded into an AI, much
like Caroline's in the final game.  [  2  ]

###  _Perpetual Testing Initiative_

See also:  Perpetual Testing Initiative  __

During the events of the _Perpetual Testing Initiative_ , Cave Johnson  and
his numerous duplicates  resume(s) his place as the head of Aperture Science
and guides the player character,  Bendy  , through the multiverse. These
events take place in a parallel universe(s) in which Cave did not die of moon
rock poisoning.

###  _Aperture Desk Job_

See also:  Aperture Desk Job  __

During the events of _Aperture Desk Job_ , Cave Johnson  in the form of pre-
recorded messages, and his statuesque, robotic, head  resume(s) his place as
the head of Aperture Science  and at the end of the short, pleads with the
player to kill him and end his robotic suffering, after the player's AI
companion, Grady, 'arranges a meeting'(breaks into his office) to show the
newly invented turret to him, with the player granting his wish, shooting the
computer's power source, putting an end to his suffering. This is short lived
however as the facility's backup power quickly re-awakens him, after which he
promptly fires Grady and the player, before plummeting through the floor, into
a pit, and singing a short operatic requiem, as the game's credits roll.

