The Chamberlock as it appears in _Portal 2_ .  “

Excellent. Please proceed into the chamberlock after completing each test.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
The **Chamberlock** is the room at the end of each  Test Chamber  that
contains an elevator leading to the next one. The Chamberlock is the most
common fixed-end goal of any test chamber, and its entrance is always covered
by a  Material Emancipation Grill  to vaporize any unauthorized objects that
pass through and remove any previously-placed  portals  . Chamberlocks appear
in most levels of both _Portal_ and _Portal 2_ .

##  Contents

  * 1  Design 
    * 1.1  Portal 
    * 1.2  Portal 2 
  * 2  Gallery 
  * 3  Videos 
  * 4  See also 

##  Design

###  Portal

Chamberlocks in _Portal_ are some of the smallest rooms in the game. For the
most part, the chamberlock is a white, circular room with slatted walls. In
the center is an elevator, which the player walks into in order to continue to
the next chamber.

###  Portal 2

_Portal 2_ brought several changes to the design of the chamberlock. Unlike
the chamberlocks in _Portal,_ the chamberlocks in _Portal 2_ are a great deal
larger than their previous rendition, with the player being able to move
freely around the central elevator. The elevator itself has undergone a
change, with the player movement inside it much more restricted and with glass
walls. A completely new addition to the chamberlock is the display-capable
walls, which display video that can either display procedures for apocalyptic
circumstances, or if a new element/mechanic of the game is introduced in a
test chamber, for example, the  Sentry Turret  , it can display how the
element is made. Sometimes these displays correspond with the  Announcer  's
voice lines.

**Note that not all chamberlocks in Portal 2 are the same** , as the
chamberlocks  of the older Aperture Science facilities  were similar in size
and construction to those of _Portal_ .

