_“This is just a thought experiment, just to see how much time you'll waste
thinking about these worthless documents. The correct time is zero seconds.”_  
This page is  **SPOILER HEAVY** .  
You can toggle spoilers with the 'Spoilers' tab at the top of each page.
Hidden text can also be revealed by highlighting it.  
  
Chell as seen in _Portal 2_ .  “

You really are doing great... Chell.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
**Chell** , documented as **Test Subject #1** but previously as **#1498** ,  [
1  ]  was a test subject of the  Aperture Science  computer-aided Enrichment
Center, and was involved in the testing of the Company's  Handheld Portal
Device  (commonly known as the Portal Gun).

She is the silent protagonist of _ Portal  _ and the single-player campaign in
_ Portal 2  _ . Very little is known of her past, beyond  her possible
abandonment at birth  and her stubborn will to live.

Throughout the series, Chell is  antagonized by the central core and facility
overseer  GLaDOS  during her testing courses. Wielding only the Handheld
Portal Device, she eventually utilizes this device as a means of avoiding
hazards and  bypassing various sections of the facility in order to escape.

According to one timeline, she likely has soulless clones made from her DNA.
[  2  ]

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
    * 1.1  _Portal_
    * 1.2  _Lab Rat_
    * 1.3  _Portal 2_
  * 2  Gallery 
  * 3  Trivia 
  * 4  See also 
  * 5  References 

##  Overview

Much of Chell's past remains a mystery.  During the final events of _ Portal
_ ,  GLaDOS  mentions numerous times that Chell was abandoned at birth, and
also mentions that she was adopted, and such references continue throughout _
Portal 2  _ , although the credibility of GLaDOS' word is unclear. Many of
GLaDOS' comments throughout _Portal 2_ and the latter stages of _Portal_ are
in an effort to belittle, annoy or distract Chell from achieving her goal, and
whether or not statements of her adoption and orphan status are true or not is
up for debate  .

During the events of Portal 2,  it is implied that Chell may be the daughter
of a scientist who worked at Aperture Science, due to a science project in the
pre-takeover escape sequence  .

###  _Portal_

Some time after GLaDOS' takeover of Aperture Science, Chell is awakened in a
Relaxation Vault  after being unconsciously placed into it. Curious, she
explores the Vault, and within only ten seconds of awakening, Chell is greeted
by a robotic and seemingly automated female voice who informs her that she is
a test subject. A voice, (later to be revealed as GLaDOS) then states that
Chell will be undergoing testing for the benefit of Aperture Science's
research program.

GLaDOS then generates two oval-shaped teleportation fabrics (  portals  ) on a
solid flat surface, with an entrance portal in the Relaxation Vault and an
exit just in front of the exterior of the Vault. Chell exits from the Vault,
however  she notices empty observation rooms which lack the staff that should
be recording her performance.  After completing her first test and acquiring
an understanding the  cube  -and-  button  based mechanic, she is put through
a series of tests to further explore and understand the use of portals.

Chell as seen in _Portal_ .

Having completed two tests, Chell reaches a test chamber in which she acquires
the  Portal Gun  . Later on during the testing course, she is put through a
series of more dangerous tests including hazards such as  Goo  and  High
Energy Pellets  , among others. Skillfully avoiding these hazards, Chell is
assisted by the  Companion Cube  and by the Aperture Science  Advanced Knee
Replacement  components applied to the back of her lower legs to her ankles,
which allow Chell to avoid injury when falling from great heights. Eventually,
the single-portal variant of her Portal Gun is upgraded to create a set of
linked portals. As an incentive to complete the tests,  GLaDOS  promises Chell
that  cake  will be served once all tests chambers have been completed.

As the testing progresses, Chell  stumbles across various areas with defunct
wall panels  , and manages to sneak into them. As she enters these maintenance
areas, she finds refuge areas commonly known as the  Rat Man  's Dens,
previously used as hiding places by Aperture technician Doug Rattmann. The
scribblings on the walls in these Dens appear to be warnings for Chell,
telling her that "the cake is a lie" and that "she's watching you". Chell, now
made more aware of her situation, is forced to continue testing and play along
with GLaDOS' plans. The Rat Man's warnings are eventually revealed to be
correct, as GLaDOS attempts to murder Chell upon her completion of the final
test chamber, despite earlier promises of cake.

Chell successfully escapes the dramatically slow death trap, and is informed
by GLaDOS that pretending to kill Chell is simply part of the test. Dubious as
to the veracity of this claim, Chell escapes the testing course, and travels
through the Aperture Science Facility in an attempt to reach the surface and
escape. Eventually however, Chell realizes there there is no chance of escape
as long as GLaDOS is in control of the Facility, and is forced to confront
GLaDOS in the  Central AI Chamber  .

Upon entry to the chamber, Chell is greeted by the passive-aggressive rogue
AI. GLaDOS claims that she will provide Chell with a surprise, however a
Morality Core  unexpectedly detaches from GLaDOS' chassis. Chell destroys it
using a nearby  Emergency Intelligence Incinerator  , however the Core is
revealed to be a safeguard designed to inhibit GLaDOS' homicidal tendencies.
With the Core destroyed, GLaDOS releases  neurotoxin  into the chamber in an
attempt to kill Chell. At the same time, a  Rocket Turret  emerges from a core
hatch beside GLaDOS and begins to target Chell. Using the Portal Gun, Chell
redirects the projectiles through linked portals, causing the rockets to
strike GLaDOS, each of which detaches more Personality Cores from the chassis.
Although inflicting damage, the loss of the Cores merely increases GLaDOS's
desire to kill Chell. After destroying each detached Core one-by-one, Chell
destroys the final Core (the  Anger Core  ), and GLaDOS is sent literally
spiraling into her demise, as the destruction of her generators triggers a
gravitational vortex, which deposits Chell on the surface.

Chell slowly regains consciousness in the parking lot of the Enrichment
Center, with with a lifeless GLaDOS beside her. As Chell's vision clears, the
Party Escort Bot  thanks her for "assuming the party escort submission
position", and begins dragging her back into the now-ruined Aperture Science
Facility. As Chell is dragged away, it is revealed that the destruction of the
Central Core (GLaDOS) resulted in the automatic activation of other
Personality Cores, tasked with the management of the Enrichment Center while
GLaDOS is offline. The final scene depicts the Companion Cube and a cake deep
within the bowels Facility, waiting for Chell to claim them.

###  _ Lab Rat  _

During the course of the comic, we are introduced to former Aperture
scientist, Doug Rattman.  He witnesses the apparent destruction of GLaDOS, and
later,  after escaping from the facility himself,  witnesses the recapturing
of Chell by the Party Escort Robot. Following the robot, he finds that Chell
has been placed into an  Extended Relaxation Vault  . However, as a result of
the explosion  at the conclusion of Portal  , all of the relaxation vaults'
life support systems are offline. Doug patches Chell's vault onto a reserve
grid (as he was unable to open the vault), allowing Chell to survive the years
prior to her reawakening in Portal 2.

###  _Portal 2_

Many years after the events of the original games, Chell is revived by
Wheatley  , a  Personality Core  . After a brief introduction, he convinces
Chell to escape with him from the ruined facility. The pair eventually find
themselves in the remains of GLaDOS' chamber. Wheatley then inadvertently
reawakens GLaDOS, who immediately recognizes Chell. Discarding Wheatley,
GLaDOS plunges Chell back into the depths of Aperture, to resume testing.

Chell finds herself testing in the ruined facility with GLaDOS, but after
several chambers, Wheatley rescues Chell to help him sabotage GLaDOS'
weaponry, allowing for a coup to take place later. GLaDOS eventually manages
to trap Chell and bring her into her lair. After finding that her preferred
methods of murder are unusable, Chell and GLaDOS find themselves at a
standstill. Wheatley reappears, and after Chell initiates a core transfer,
replaces GLaDOS as the Central AI of Aperture. However, he goes mad with
power, dismantles the remains of GLaDOS' head and reconfigures it into a
potato battery, and accidentally sends both GLaDOS and Chell to the
decomposing underbelly of the facility, "Old Aperture," which had been sealed
off for many decades.

In Old Aperture, Chell is introduced to  Cave Johnson  , the now-deceased
founder and CEO of Aperture and his assistant  Caroline  . Throughout the
tests, Chell finds and re-activates the  Repulsion  ,  Propulsion  and
Conversion Gels  . She is reunited with GLaDOS during her travel through Old
Aperture, and the two forge a plot to overthrow Wheatley in exchange for
Chell's freedom.

After departing from Old Aperture, the duo locate a test chamber that Wheatley
is overseeing and attempt to disable him via a logical paradox. This fails,
however, and they quickly find themselves solving Wheatley's own cobbled-
together tests. Much like in the first game, Wheatley tries to kill Chell and
GLaDOS, saying that he had found the  perfect replacements  for Chell. After a
lengthy chase through the upper facility, Chell and GLaDOS are again in the
Central AI Chamber with Wheatley. Chell furthers Wheatley's "corruption" by
attaching corrupted cores to his frame, allowing for a second core transfer.
Before Chell can do this, however, Wheatley detonates bombs that he had
"booby-trapped the stalemate button" with in a last ditch effort to maintain
control. However, Chell fires one last set of portals above and below
Wheatley. These portals link together the Moon and the Central AI Chamber, and
both Chell and Wheatley are sucked through into outer space. Seconds
afterward, GLaDOS regains control of her chassis, rescues Chell, and closes
the portals, leaving Wheatley to be lost in space. After a monologue, GLaDOS
(supposedly) makes good on her promise, and delivers Chell, via high-speed
elevator, to the surface above Aperture Science. As the elevator ascends, it
enters an ampitheatre-like space, where a  choir of turrets  sing  a farewell
song  to Chell. Chell's elevator emerges in a shed in a large field of wheat.
Chell's  Companion Cube  is also sent up moments afterword, presumably as a
token of "thank you" from GLaDOS. After expelling the Companion Cube, the
elevator door slams violently, probably to indicate that GLaDOS does not want
Chell to return to the Enrichment Center again.

