Conversion Gel.  “

Hold on. Couldn't we just use that conversion gel?  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
**Conversion Gel** is a white gel that enables any surface to have portals
placed on them, even if they are not normally portal-conductive. If it is
washed off, the portal will sit unchanged where the gel used to be,  except at
the end where it is removed in attempt to prevent an exploit onto overhead
areas. However, if Chell spams portals at the high platform, it will, as
mentioned above, sit unaltered.

According to  Cave Johnson  , Conversion Gel is made from  ground-up moon
rocks, which make a great portal conductor  . This is shown when  Chell fires
a portal at the moon near the end of the game, despite the non-flat surface of
the moon. Unfortunately, long-term exposure to ground up moon rocks led to
Johnson's poisoning and eventual presumed death. He attempted to fashion a
cure by forging a gel out of the rocks, in hopes that  "jumping in and out of
these new portals can somehow leech the lunar poison out of a man's
bloodstream".

Surfaces that are not flat or big enough to fit a portal will not be portal-
conductive even when coated in Conversion Gel. This means that Conversion Gel-
covered  Weighted Storage Cubes  will not function as a portal-able surface.

##  Contents

  * 1  Seen in 
    * 1.1  Portal 2 Single-Player campaign 
    * 1.2  Portal 2 Multi-Player campaign 
    * 1.3  Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC 
  * 2  Related achievements 

##  Seen in

###  Portal 2 Single-Player campaign

  * Portal 2 Chapter 7 Pump Station Gamma & Enrichment Sphere 6  (introduced) 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 7 Ascension 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 8 Test Chamber 16 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 9 Mash-up 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 9 Morton's Fork 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 9 Finale 

###  Portal 2 Multi-Player campaign

  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 6 Chamber 5  (introduced) 

###  Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC

  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Test Chamber 3 (Advanced)  (introduced) 
  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Test Chamber 4 (Advanced) 

##  Related achievements

_**White Out** _  
Complete the first Conversion Gel test  
  
v  •  d  •  e

Mechanics  
_ Portal 2  _

Aerial Faith Plate  ·  Chamberlock  ·  Circuit Breaker  ·  Crushers  ·
Edgeless Safety Cube Receptacle  ·  Excursion Funnel  ·  Flinging  ·  Fire
Suppression System  ·  Goo  ·  Hard Light Bridge  ·  Heavy Duty Super-
Colliding Super Button  ·  Laser Field  ·  Material Emancipation Grill  ·
Panels  ·  Pedestal Button  ·  Ping Tool  ·  Piston  ·  Portals  ·  Portal
Spawner  ·  Shredder  ·  Surfaces  ·  Thermal Discouragement Beam  ·
Unstationary Scaffold  ·  Victory Lift

Cubes

Contraption Cube  ·  Discouragement Redirection  ·  Edgeless Safety  ·
Scalable Cube  ·  Weighted Companion  ·  Weighted Storage  
  
Tubes

Pneumatic Diversity Vent  ·  Vital Apparatus Vent  
  
Gels

Conversion  ·  Propulsion  ·  Repulsion  
  
Unused content

Adhesion Gel  ·  Reflection Gel  
  
Retrieved from "
https://theportalwiki.com/w/index.php?title=Conversion_Gel&oldid=185601  "

