_“This is just a thought experiment, just to see how much time you'll waste
thinking about these worthless documents. The correct time is zero seconds.”_  
This page is  **SPOILER HEAVY** .  
You can toggle spoilers with the 'Spoilers' tab at the top of each page.
Hidden text can also be revealed by highlighting it.  
  
Doug Rattmann after the events of _ Portal  _ , as seen in the _ Lab Rat  _
comic.  “

Reality is a story the mind tells itself. An artificial structure conjured
into being by the calcium ion exchange of a million synaptic firings. A truth
so strange it can only be lied into existence. And our minds **can** lie.
Never doubt it...

— **Doug Rattmann**

”  
  
**Doug Rattman** , also nicknamed as simply the **Rat Man** , was a scientist
at the  Aperture Science  Enrichment Center. Prior to the events of _ Portal
_ while  GLaDOS  began flooding the entire facility with  neurotoxin  ,
Rattman is the only known employee to have survived. He is stated to be a
schizophrenic  , and shown to take anti-psychotic medication to ease his
delusions and hallucinations.

Rattman does not appear in-game in any form, instead leaving behind paintings
and murals which can be found throughout the backstage of various testing
chambers in _Portal_ and the single-player campaign of _ Portal 2  _ .

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
    * 1.1  _Portal 2: Lab Rat_
    * 1.2  _Portal_
    * 1.3  _Portal 2_
  * 2  Ghost of Rattman 
    * 2.1  Connections to  the Borealis 
    * 2.2  Connections to events in Lab Rat 
  * 3  Known dens 
  * 4  Gallery 
  * 5  Trivia 
  * 6  References 
  * 7  See also 

##  Overview

###  _Portal 2: Lab Rat_

See also:  Portal 2: Lab Rat  __

Rattmann as he appears in the _ Lab Rat  _ comic, holding his anti-psychotic
medicine, prior to the events of the _Portal_ series.

In the _ Portal 2: Lab Rat  _ comic, he is revealed to be an Aperture Science
employee who worked on the  Handheld Portal Device  .  [  1  ]  He expresses
doubts about GLaDOS and the effectiveness of a morality core, remarking "You
can always ignore your conscience".  [  2  ]  His fears turn out to be
justified when she poisons all the staff in the Enrichment Center with
neurotoxin  upon activation during the company's Bring-Your-Daughter-To-Work
Day.

Prepared for the outcome, he survives the initial attempts to kill him and
proceeds to sneak through parts of the facility, avoiding GLaDOS who is
actively hunting him. Acting on a 'hunch', he breaks into the test subjects'
filing room and arranges  Chell  's name to the top of the test subject
roster,  [  3  ]  leading to the events in _Portal_ .

###  _Portal_

See also:  Portal  __

Crude bed that can be found in most of Rattmann's dens.

Delusional, running low on medication and traveling with what appears to be a
talking  Weighted Companion Cube  , he watches from the shadows as  Chell  is
put through  GLaDOS  ' testing course. Although he is never spotted in-game in
any of the playable _Portal_ series, his refuge areas (referred to as dens)
can be found by Chell, containing crude bedding, empty cans of beans and
scribblings and dioramas on the walls. It is in one of these dens that the
warning phrase "The cake is a lie" can be found scribbled on a wall; as GLaDOS
continually promises that there would be cake at the end of testing.

Following Chell's conflict with GLaDOS after her escape from the testing
tracks, the _Lab Rat_ comic details Rattmann's point of view after the events
of _Portal_ in which he follows the sound of the explosion and finds a route
to the outside world after the destruction of GLaDOS. His joy is short-lived
as he witnesses an unconscious Chell being dragged back into the facility by
the  Party Escort Bot  . Feeling guilt, as it was his actions that resulted in
her being the first test subject, he once again enters the facility and finds
Chell has been put in long-term cryogenic relaxation.  [  4  ]  Finding out
that all of  Relaxation Chamber  beds are offline due to the explosion
compromising the power grid, he proceeds to save Chell's life by patching hers
into the reserve power grid. He is injured in the process when he is shot by
Turrets  that are still left in nearby test chambers.  [  5  ]  He then
submits himself into Chell's cryogenic stasis bed found in the  Relaxation
Vault  previously used in the events of _Portal_ , and falls asleep in it.

His fate is left unknown as the entire bed with him is nowhere to be found
when Chell later revisits this Relaxation Vault at the beginning of the
single-player campaign in _ Portal 2  _ .

  

###  _Portal 2_

See also:  Portal 2  __

During the events of the single-player campaign of _Portal 2_ , Rattman's fate
is left unknown. Whether or not he is dead is left up to debate, as  Chell  's
cryogenic stasis bed that she used before the events of _ Portal  _ he took
refuge in, had disappeared entirely. One piece of evidence for his death is
the song called "Ghost of Rattman". Some speculate that Rattman may have made
it to the moon, as shown in a hidden picture encrypted into the game's audio
file. You can find the audio file by bringing a radio into Rattman's den in
Portal 2 Chapter 2 Test Chamber 6.

A Rattmann den during _ Portal 2  's _ single-player.

All that is left of him in _Portal 2_ , like in the first game, are wall
scribblings and various dioramas depicting either what he witnessed or simply
what he feels like expressing.

Rattman's graffiti work makes no appearances whatsoever during the game's
Cooperative Testing Initiative  .  However, a  Weighted Companion Cube  can be
spotted by  Atlas  and  P-body  in the last test of _ Course Four: Excursion
Funnels  _ . The cube is apparently attached to a Core Receptacle, indicating
that it may in fact be as sentient as any other  Cores  in the series.

At some point in the events of the  Perpetual Testing Initiative  , in which
the player takes role of stick figure  Bendy  \- is shifted into a variety of
alternate universes at the Enrichment Center as a means of still having  Cave
Johnson  as ongoing CEO. There is a universe in which Rattmann is CEO of the
Aperture company. Cave (now former junior claims representative of Aperture)
hijacks the intercoms to yell out and warn everyone that Rattmann (the current
CEO) is embezzling from the staffs' paychecks.

##  Ghost of Rattman

See also:  Songs to Test By  __

Ghost of Rattman is the 7th track on the Portal 2 soundtrack "Portal 2: Songs
to Test By."  It includes what is speculated to be Rattmann speaking to
himself, his Companion Cube, or even Cave Johnson. The ramblings draw
parallels with the  Borealis  as well as multiple events in the 2011 comic
Lab Rat  . You can access this recording in Den #7 in Portal 2, located in
test chamber 17.  

     _(Unintelligible)_   

     _I had no choice, help me, Uncle Johnson,_   

     _Help me chose my desire!_   

     _(Unintelligible)_   

     _They took me to Mesa (unintelligible) mutilation_   

     _It was coming soon!_   

     _It's gone, sir, it's been stolen!_   

     _The ship is stolen!_   

     _(Unintelligible)_   

     _He's dead. Everyone, dead!_   

     _But she lives! Please, help me, Chell!_   

     _I can touch it!_   

     _Johnson? (Unintelligible)_   

     _The ship is gone, they're moving it to Mesa Hill!_   

     _That's where it all started._   

     _(Unintelligible)_   

     _Little girl, it's ok._   

     _Your pain is ignored by a little pill._   

  

###  Connections to  the Borealis

     _It's gone, sir, it's been stolen!_   

     _The ship is stolen!_   

     _The ship is gone, they're moving it to Mesa Hill!_   

By "the ship," Rattman is referring to the  Borealis  .

###  Connections to events in Lab Rat

     _He's dead. Everyone, dead!_   

     _But she lives! Please, help me, Chell!_   

     _I can touch it!_   

This could refer to two incidents, both described in Portal 2: Lab Rat.  
The first incident  is the infamous Bring Your Daughter to Work Day. _He's
dead. Everyone, dead!_ could refer to the people killed by  GLaDOS  during
this incident, with _But she lives!_ referring to GLaDOS herself.  
However, these lines could alternatively be referring to  the dead bodies in
the cryo-chambers. As shown on page 17 of Portal 2: Lab Rat, all of the
chambers were offline, however Rattmann was able to save Chell by resetting
her life support and putting her in "the long sleep." This would also align
with the next line _I can touch it,_ referring to page 25, where Rattmann had
to reach to push a button to save Chell.  

     _Little girl, it's ok._   

     _Your pain is ignored by a little pill._   

As shown in  Portal 2: Lab Rat  , Rattman is dependent on anti-psychotics to
treat his paranoid delusions.  

##  Known dens

Aside from leaving paintings, murals and messages behind, Doug Rattman also
discovered a number of hidden rooms in Aperture Science. He adorned these
rooms with messages and artwork and primarily used them as refuges in order to
escape GLaDOS' scrutiny. The hidden rooms are present in both Portal and
Portal 2, and are known as the **Ratman's Dens** . A total of 13 have been
discovered, 6 in Portal and 7 in Portal 2.

Den locations in _Portal_ :

  * Den #1:  Test Chamber 16 
  * Den #2:  Test Chamber 17 
  * Den #3:  Test Chamber 18 
  * Den #4:  Test Chamber 19 
  * Den #5:  Test Chamber 19 
  * Den #6:  Test Chamber 19 

Den locations in _Portal 2_ :

  * Den #1:  Chapter 1 - Test Chamber 4 
  * Den #2:  Chapter 2 - Test Chamber 3 
  * Den #3:  Chapter 2 - Test Chamber 6 
  * Den #4:  Chapter 3 - Test Chamber 11 
  * Den #5:  Chapter 3 - Test Chamber 12 
  * Den #6:  Chapter 3 - Test Chamber 16 
  * Den #7:  Chapter 3 - Test Chamber 17 

  

  

  

  
  
  
