GLaDOS in _Portal 2_ “

Okay, look: We both said a lot of things that you're going to regret, but I
think we can put our differences behind us; for science... you monster.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
**GLaDOS** ( **G** enetic **L** ifeform **a** nd **D** isk **O** perating
**S** ystem) is the  central core  designed to control, guide, and oversee the
Aperture Science  computer-aided Enrichment Center. With the ability to shift
and move facilities and various chambers, GLaDOS is able to achieve a seamless
and almost infinite testing design whilst residing in the  Central AI Chamber
.

In possession of a feminine programming,  she is the antagonist of _ Portal  _
and  the first half of the single-player campaign in _ Portal 2  _ .  During
the later half, she becomes the game's  tritagonist  .  In the game's
cooperative campaign, GLaDOS is the testing supervisor of  Atlas  and  P-body
.

##  Contents

  * 1  Background 
  * 2  Overview 
    * 2.1  _Portal_
    * 2.2  _Portal 2_
      * 2.2.1  Reawakening era 
      * 2.2.2  Cooperative testing era 
      * 2.2.3  Perpetual testing era 
  * 3  Abilities and traits 
  * 4  Development and acting 
  * 5  Gallery 
    * 5.1  _Portal_
    * 5.2  _Portal 2_
    * 5.3  _Other_
  * 6  Trivia 
  * 7  Appearances 
  * 8  References 
  * 9  See also 

##  Background

GLaDOS was a creation of  Aperture Science  , a  personality core  designed
exactly to be fitted as a central computer mainframe. The project began under
the oversight of  Cave Johnson  over the company and was an attempt to create
a fully functional, advanced artificial intelligence which was originally
intended to be occupied by Johnson as one of his attempts to cheat death.
After it became apparent to Johnson that he may die of moon rock poisoning
before development on GLaDOS would be completed, Johnson motioned for the
scientists to insert  Caroline  instead.

After a decade's worth of hard work, GLaDOS was officially activated as part
of one of the many events during the company's "Bring Your Daughter to Work"
day. Since she was able to take control of half of the facility's features,
GLaDOS began killing most of its inhabitants by flooding the Enrichment Center
with  neurotoxin  . However, only a few if not only one of the staff such as
Doug Rattman  had survived her attacks along with the series' main
protagonist,  Chell  . The destruction of the company also coincided with an
invasion of Earth, which had occurred two days after at Aperture's rival
company,  Black Mesa  . This ultimately led to the negligence of the outside
world from realizing's fate, as all attention had been diverted to Black Mesa
and the aforementioned invasion.

Since the attack, she has managed the company to her limits.  Her first test
subject and the series' main protagonist,  Chell  , was given a warning of
GLaDOS' true colors with the help of Rattmann. She confronts GLaDOS in her
chamber at the end of _ Portal  _ , which allowed GLaDOS to develop an even
deeper hatred for her after she was awakened at the beginning of _ Portal 2  _
.

##  Overview

###  _Portal_

See also:  Portal  __

GLaDOS in _ Portal  _ , with  personality cores  attached.

Before the events of _Portal_ , one of Aperture's technicians,  Doug Rattman
, successfully evaded GLaDOS' attempts to flood the Enrichment Center with
neurotoxin  . He then took refuge in several departments throughout the
facility and began tampering with the initial test subject roster, rearranging
Chell  to the top of the list as Test Subject #1 instead. Since GLaDOS
initiated a lockdown, Rattman was forced to live his whole life hiding between
the backstages of  Test Chambers  in the Enrichment Center. He then left
various warnings of GLaDOS through graffiti that could only be found behind
several corrupted  wall panels  in Test Chambers, in hopes that Chell would
later stumble upon them. GLaDOS was able to operate the company all while
residing in her Central AI Chamber, despite lacking full control over the
facility.

She then awakens Chell for her mandatory testing of the  Handheld Portal
Device  , which began the events of _Portal_ . During these periods, she
constantly intimidated Chell during her performances and gave bitter yet
innocent sarcastic notions by simply acting out like conveniently placed pre-
recorded messages.  Several tests later, Chell would later discover the
various graffiti left behind by Rattmann and immediately became aware that
this was not the case, but was forced to play along with GLaDOS' plans.

After Chell completed the final test chamber,  GLaDOS immediately revealed her
true colors as she attempts to lower her into a pit of fire. Chell was able to
escape her attempt to incinerate her and from there, Chell makes her way
throughout the facility in an attempt to escape, to GLaDOS' horror. As she
traverses the facility, she realizes the only way to escape from it is to
confront GLaDOS in  her chamber  , a conflict which Chell won by incinerating
all of her personality cores. After the conflict, GLaDOS was heavily damaged
and thrown into the parking lot, where she remained dormant for an unspecified
amount of time as the facility degraded over the years.

###  _Portal 2_

See also:  Portal 2  __

####  Reawakening era

The remains of GLaDOS' backup body after her conflict in _Portal_ .

Beginning the major events of _Portal 2_ , GLaDOS is reactivated in her backup
body through the accidental efforts of both  Wheatley  and  Chell  having
tried to access an escape lift to the surface in the  Central AI Chamber  , as
both of them were previously trapped in the building following GLaDOS'
destruction.  She immediately realizes the presence of Chell and Wheatley
standing before her upon awakening. Despite her newly profound hatred for
Chell having destroyed her, she uses Wheatley as an object for relieving her
anger by crushing him.

GLaDOS then decides to return Chell to the facility's science experiments to
further her cause of science, but now have a lot of resentment against Chell
for her previous destruction (she claims at one point that she had to relive
the last moments of her fight with Chell over and over which, if true, would
be a long time indeed), she constantly makes various taunts and snarky remarks
at Chell while testing her, and plans to try to kill her again.

GLaDOS lowering a neurotoxin tube, with  Wheatley  rolling inside.

However,  Wheatley  later resurfaces and was still alive despite the critical
damage inflicted onto him by GLaDOS. With his help, Chell was able to escape
from GLaDOS'  testing tracks  and went through the facility to sabotage her
vital strategy components, such as the production of  neurotoxin  . Finally
reaching her newly redesigned chamber, they were then able to defeat GLaDOS
together, replacing her with Wheatley as the facility's overseer. Wheatley,
intimidated by GLaDOS' response to how useless he is, traps GLaDOS in a potato
battery and throws her into the depths of the Enrichment Center alongside
Chell.

After Wheatley became corrupted by his new position and power, GLaDOS and
Chell worked together, initially as unwilling partners, to restore control
over the facility (which further degraded and corrupted under the influence of
Wheatley, to the point where the facility's reactor core will undergo a
meltdown). During this time, the duo try to find their way out of the depths
of the Enrichment Center where they approach several vintage  Test Chambers
previously managed by Aperture CEO,  Cave Johnson  and his secretary  Caroline
.

As Chell and GLaDOS continue to journey through the pasts of Aperture Science
located in the salt mine deep beneath the Enrichment Center, GLaDOS slowly
becomes familiar to Johnson and Caroline. As they are finally ready to leave
the salt mine, GLaDOS spots a poster on the wall, showing what to do in the
case of a rogue AI, a paradox. GLaDOS also has an epiphany on who Caroline is
but remains silent on the matter.

PotatOS

The duo then have made their way back to the modern Enrichment Center, where
Chell and GLaDOS use the paradox on Wheatley, but ultimately fail because
Wheatley is too unintelligent to understand it. They are put through  Wheatley
's  testing tracks  . When Wheatley later realizes that GLaDOS had built two
robot test subjects prior to Chell and Wheatley's sabotage over the facility
early on in the game, he finally attempts to dispose both GLaDOS and Chell.
When the duo manages to escape from his grasp, they head to the Central AI
Chamber to confront him. GLaDOS proposes that Chell is to attach her back into
her body to resume her control over the facility. The conflict was then
resolved by their conjoint efforts, resulting in the exile of Wheatley to
outer space and reconciliation between each other.

GLaDOS during the single-player ending monologue.

After repairing the entire facility to its state before Wheatley's control,
GLaDOS begins to become even more affected by her recently acquired morality,
emotions and gained her consciousness after discovering who  Caroline  was.
She realizes that Chell was not an enemy, but could be considered a close
friend. Part of her "rogue AI" nature disagreed with this change of heart.
GLaDOS was then able to trace Caroline's consciousness in her system, moments
before the  Announcer  reveals that GLaDOS has deleted Caroline from her
system. She then expels Chell from the facility to avoid further trouble
beyond her control. However, Chell is then comforted through her elevated ride
to the surface by a  Turret Opera  which remains unknown as to why the event
occurred.

Before  Chell  could leave the Enrichment Center for good, GLaDOS decides to
return Chell's  Companion Cube  from her tests in _ Portal  _ by ejecting it
from the lift.

From then on, she conducts tests on the two robot test subjects;  Atlas  and
P-body  .

####  Cooperative testing era

Sometime after Chell is freed from the Enrichment Center,  GLaDOS has been
primarily focusing on her two new android test subjects  Atlas  and  P-body  ,
as part of the  Cooperative Testing Initiative  . Typical of her nature, she
would constantly find a way to crush their spirits via sarcasm and expressing
herself to be having little hope for them.

At the end of the first testing course, _ Team Building  _ , she deploys the
bots outside the official testing track, announcing that "this next test is so
outside the box that I can't- I mean WON'T even tell you what you're looking
for". She leaves the bots to use common sense to figure out what they should
be looking for by themselves, as they find a large disc and bring it into a
projector room. Despite the clear warning "DO NOT TRUST HER" written on a
whiteboard in the room, the bots place the disc into the projector - in which
she begins scanning for files and documents she refuses to disclose. After she
was done, she initiated a self-destruct on the bots and reassembled them back
at the  Hub  .

This topic remains untouched through the entirety of their second testing
track, _ Mass and Velocity  _ . However, at the end of this course, it became
clear that she would continually send them outside the testing tracks again to
handle her secret full takeover on the facility. As Atlas and P-body work
together to get each other past the air circulation maintenance section, they
find another disc and install it into the projector. GLaDOS again scans
through and proceeds to tell them that she did not need them to do this, and
pretends their mission did not matter after self-destructing them again.

When the bots reach the third course, _ Hard-Light Surfaces  _ , GLaDOS' utter
disappointment in the duo becomes more clear. Their "deaths" never bring the
satisfaction she had with the death of humans, as the bots can just easily be
rebuilt again each time they are destroyed. Meanwhile, she is secretly working
on an attempt to replace Atlas and P-body. At the end of this course, the bots
install a disc that contains the Enrichment Center's current overall security
code, which she tries to block out from their range of hearing by uttering
"blah blah blah" repeatedly as the  Announcer  relays the codes.

In the fourth course, _ Excursion Funnels  _ , GLaDOS builds slight hope in
keeping Atlas and P-body still as predicted by her sudden change of mood from
the previous course. She now wants the bots to feel conflicted against each
other - hoping to enhance a more "competitive" and bitter testing run, simply
by manipulating them into thinking that one of them has been "reporting" to
her behind the others' back, or how P-body is "not [Atlas'] first cooperative
testing partner". The bots still carry on regardless, where GLaDOS'
disappointment in the two reprises in her tone of voice. On the last test, she
gets them to install the final disc to her full control over the facility -
assuring them it was a clerical error by humans on how it was not done any
earlier before they died. As the bots install it, overview maps of every
section of the facility begin projecting onto the screen, followed by her
mischievous yet anticipated tone of voice when revealing that "[she] can see
everything now".

Atlas  and  P-body  upon reaching the  Human Vault  .

Reassembled back at the hub, GLaDOS tells the bots that they have just one
more testing course to complete - _ Mobility Gels  _ . She deploys the
entrance to this course into the hub and sends them deep beneath the
Enrichment Center to the Aperture Science Innovators era, a bottom section of
the salt mine. GLaDOS convinces them to rescue the "dying, trapped, crying"
live human test subjects preserved in a cryogenic vault that were preserved
since the 20th century. Once they finally reach this vault at the end of the
course, GLaDOS reveals a great deal of anticipation and obsession over
"rescuing" them. In an attempt to unlock the vault, the bots had to perform
gestures like any human would - as the vault was an anti-robot section.
Despite how sinister she sounded after the bots observed the hundreds of
humans in cryogenic stasis, they disregarded it and began dancing in triumph.
Now extracting all of the human test subjects, she begins processing their
files - which apparently turned out to be only one person's file.

As she no longer needs Atlas and P-body as her test subjects, she began
testing the humans in an attempt to develop them into her cold minions. Her
plan fails as the humans are unable to withstand her extreme testing courses
and all of the hundreds of test subjects that were found began dying within
just a week of testing. It became apparent that she needed Atlas and P-body
back as her facility began to malfunction all of a sudden, in addition to her
lack of test subjects.

GLaDOS  prototype seen at the end of _Art Therapy_ .

When the bots are rebuilt again, she deploys the additional testing course; _
Art Therapy  _ . As the bots begin testing, she treats the course as if it
were an art museum despite the obvious malfunctioning environment such as her
lack of control in putting the test chambers together properly, and a flood
arising around a section of the facility during testing. Eventually, the
reassembly machines have begin malfunctioning - causing her to wait three days
before the robots could be reassembled to deliver the duo to their next test
chamber. GLaDOS then gives in and confesses that she is in need of their help
and that someone has been tampering with the facility via control of an old
prototype chassis of the  central core  . To resolve this, she trains the bots
into becoming her "killing machines" by deploying them into more challenging
tests during their course. GLaDOS then sends them closer to the chamber
housing the chassis, and later jokingly calls them as her "Special Team
Falling Into Acid Force". When the bots reach the chamber, they discover it
was never a person, but even worse - a bird nesting above the keyboard on the
machine. GLaDOS, thanks to her ornitophobia back when she was a potato, panics
and instructs them abort the mission, before P-body closes a hatch that the
bird flew out from. As the bots stare at the chassis, GLaDOS panics that the
bird had been "gestating clones" on the keyboard and forces them to destroy
the eggs. With the bots hesitant, she conjures a better idea and houses the
birds in the  Central AI Chamber  , where she could nurture them directly.

GLaDOS and the birds.

GLaDOS begins to show compassion toward the birds as she realizes their
ability to use their beaks and considers them as test subjects, also revealing
a more motherly bonding with the birds than she ever did with the "mushroom"
bots. The fate of these birds remain unknown.

####  Perpetual testing era

As the Perpetual Testing Initiative offers a wide range of alternate universes
for the player that is going through community test chambers - dubbed the
"multiverse", Aperture CEO  Cave Johnson  still lives and is as healthy as he
was before being struck by exposure to moon rock poisoning in the main
reality. However, all of the universes which form multiverse have the same
outcome in which all development on GLaDOS has been abolished after her first
activation when she went rogue.

In addition to her being abolished, Cave's loyal assistant  Caroline  has been
replaced with  Greg  . It is unexplained on exactly what did happen to
Caroline, although serving as a hint that she may have merged with GLaDOS,
thus explaining her absence from this era. In this same universe after she was
abolished, Cave also tries pushing the scientists into making a Cave-Bot
instead. In one universe Cave successfully becomes an AI (known as "CaveDOS")
and it's unknown what happened to Caroline.

##  Abilities and traits

As the overseer and operator of the facility, GLaDOS is seemingly omnipotent,
able to reconfigure rooms and carry out actions at her will. She monitors the
facility and its test chambers through cameras mounted on walls.  She also
mentions that she cannot resist thinking of paradoxes if one would happen to
be brought up.  GLaDOS had displayed little to no emotion within her voice
tone in the first half of _Portal_ , due to being bound by the consciousness
of other  personality cores  attached to her for the sole purpose of
restricting her true thoughts. She then becomes increasingly more agitated and
is portrayed as a narcissist during Chell's escape attempts.  In _Portal 2_ ,
she grows bitter after the events of _Portal_ , and is no longer bound by the
restraints of her cores. She frequently insults Chell until the very end -
until she briefly realizes that Chell was "all along [her] best friend".

GLaDOS' consciousness had been controlled by  personality cores  throughout
the events of _Portal_ .  If the cores are removed, the traits and morals
which the cores contain would be permanently detached from GLaDOS as well,
causing her to fall back to her more human and intimidating voice tone,
resembling that of her Genetic Lifeform component Caroline.

GLaDOS' status as the central core allows her to have various controls over
the Enrichment Center. Apart from being able to build, reconstruct or deface
test chambers, GLaDOS can provide the pneumatic pressures serving as the
vacuum inside the  tube networks  across the facility - a power which the
Announcer could only handle the elevator tube shafts in the  chamberlocks  .
In _Portal_ , GLaDOS was able to steer away the vacuum directions inside the
tubes and managed to pull Chell back into  Test Chamber 09  after the latter
attempted to travel inside a burst tube.

It was eventually revealed in _Portal 2_ that GLaDOS was also able to
reconstruct the components on her own body as well, now without the cores
restricting her thoughts. She had replaced most of the broken and or missing
components on her body since her reawakening in the chapter, _ The Courtesy
Call  _ . Her newer components spotted on her body since the chapter _ The
Escape  _ is sleek and black, and is of little resemblance to the original
ones from her body during the reawakening and _Portal_ .

##  Development and acting

Earliest known concept art of GLaDOS.

During Anime Midwest 2011, voice actress  Ellen McLain  revealed that the
premise of GLaDOS had always been a robotic voice that would guide the
protagonist and often intimidates them. Early on development,  Valve  had used
copyrighted voice samples as a  placeholder  for GLaDOS. As Ellen McLain
previously voiced the radio communications dispatcher of the  Combine
Overwatch  throughout the  _Half-Life 2_ saga, the developers had chosen her
for the role of GLaDOS. During this time, developers had kept the development
quiet, leaving Ellen unaware of what game it is that she is doing voice work
for. Ellen was later made aware of her work and success when _ Portal  _ was
finally released.

In _Portal 2_ , GLaDOS' dialogue shortly after her awakening was originally
much more insulting. As playtesters grew uncomfortable with her insults, it
was then decided that GLaDOS continues her passive-aggressive behavior which
she began from the _Portal_ credits song,  Still Alive  .  When it was decided
that GLaDOS and Chell needed to work together to face  Wheatley  , Valve opts
for GLaDOS to be uploaded into a potato battery. Writer Jay Pinkerton
describes the transformation as "a very stark difference between this
imperious, all-powerful GLaDOS talking to you, and this powerless GLaDOS
talking to you on your gun", and that potato GLaDOS was initially needling
towards playtesters. To counteract this, she was made into a more sidekick
type of character.  [  1  ]

Appearance-wise in _Portal_ , GLaDOS' initial designs before the game's
release varied greatly. The earliest known design of GLaDOS was a large disc
with a red eyeball in the center, with the disc surrounding it and welded onto
the eyeball. This concept of GLaDOS appears to be the most favorable version
towards several community members and was then recreated for use on a
character entirely for the community-made machinima series, _ The Underground
_ . Later on in development, the design of the large eyeball was then scrapped
into a robotic body hanging upsidedown from the ceiling, with four discs
surrounding above it this time. This concept has since been kept for the
release of _Portal_ , with minor adjustments such as the addition of
personality cores  .

In the game's commentary mode, Jeremy Bennett (art director) describes
GLaDOS's design: "[...] we settled on a huge mechanical device with a delicate
robotic figure dangling out of it, which successfully conveys both [her] raw
power and her femininity." Originally, according to Bennett, she resembled an
upside-down version of  Botticelli's "Rise of Venus"  .

The earliest known concept art of GLaDOS' design for _ Portal 2  _ was through
one of the many concept box arts; demonstrating that her body's plating was
completely torn and scrapped, leaving only her head the most intact - nearing
the design of her spherical-cylinder shaped head in the game's release. She
had also been given a red-eye color in this concept rather than the trademark
yellow that was given to her in _Portal_ . Not much else is known of her
design changes during the sequel, except that the developers established that
the current design of GLaDOS in _Portal 2_ was to signify a more antagonistic
appearance and shape.

In addition, an unused reskin of GLaDOS' design from _Portal_ can be found in
the game files of _Portal 2_ , presenting rust stains and scratches possibly
to be used for her components scattered around in her chamber.

