  

The Handheld Portal Device model from _ Portal  _ .  “

The Device is now more valuable than the organs and combined incomes of
everyone in ` **Subject Hometown Here** `  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
The ** Aperture Science  Handheld Portal Device ** (also known as the **Portal
Gun** , **ASHPoD** , **Aperture Science Quantum Tunneling Device** , or
**ASHPD** ) is the experimental tool designed to place two  portals  that
objects can pass through. This is the primary tool players are equipped with
to complete  Test Chambers  .

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
  * 2  Portal 2 
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Closed Captions 
  * 5  References 

##  Overview

The Handheld Portal Device is designed to create and place portals on immobile
surfaces, or surfaces covered with  Conversion Gel  that are big enough for
the Portals to be opened. When the device is fired, a burst of energy will be
released from the end of the device. If the projectile strikes a valid
surface, a portal of the corresponding color will be formed. If a portal of
the other color is already placed, these two portals will be linked. If a
portal of the same color is already placed, it will be closed and the new one
will be used instead, limiting the player to the use of only two portals at a
time. Nothing will happen if a portal is shot at an enemy or other object. The
glass chamber and a light on the top of the device will glow with the color of
the previously placed portal.

The Handheld Portal Device also has the ability to pick up and manipulate
objects directly in front of it in the same manner as the  Gravity Gun  from
the _Half-Life_ series. While holding an object, the primary fire function
will push the object forward _very_ slightly, while secondary fire will drop
the object.

##  Portal 2

The Handheld Portal Device in _ Portal 2  _ behaves somewhat differently to
its _Portal_ counterpart. The key differences include new object handling
sounds and animations, new sounds for firing portals and faster placement of
portals by default. In addition, the Portal Device supports new animations and
particle effects for moving portals and stretching objects  [  1  ]  ; while
it is possible to enable free rotation of objects via the use of a  console
command  , the remaining functionality is only accessible through the use of a
Razer Hydra  controller, which allows for the greater degree of control of
objects. The Portal Device in _Portal 2_ also lacks the ability to slightly
launch/drop objects using the primary and secondary fire keys respectively.

