The Hard-Light Bridge as it appears in _Portal 2_ .  “

These bridges are made from natural light that I pump in from the surface. If
you rubbed your cheek on one, it would be like standing outside with the sun
shining on your face. It would also set your hair on fire, so don't actually
do it.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
A  Hard Light Bridge  (simply known as a **Light Bridge** ,) is a semi-
translucent solid made from natural sunlight beamed in from the Earth's
surface. It can act as a bridge for the player, a shield against turrets and
other hazards, or even a wall for more complex puzzles the player encounters
later on.

The bridges span an infinite length or until stopped by another solid... Since
the bridge is made of light, if one portion of the bridge is stopped by a
solid object the rest will not continue as a beam of light normally would.

##  Contents

  * 1  Interactions 
  * 2  Appearances 
    * 2.1  Portal 2 Single-Player Campaign 
    * 2.2  Portal 2 Multi-Player Campaign 
    * 2.3  Sixense MotionPack DLC 
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Videos 
  * 5  Trivia 
  * 6  Related achievements 
    * 6.1  Portal 2 

##  Interactions

Hard-Light Bridges can be redirected with  portals  . Hard Light Bridges
emerging from odd portals are orthogonal to them. Also,  portals  need to be
in the center with the bridge if trying to get it to another place, otherwise
it won't pass through.

Chell  ,  P-body  , and  Atlas  can adjust placement of the even  portals
slightly after redirection of Hard-Light Bridges with  portals  while standing
on them in some situations...

Chell  ,  P-body  ,  Atlas  can adjust placement of the odd  portals  after
redirection of Hard-Light Bridges with  portals  while standing on them in
most situations...

Portals  pass through Hard-Light Bridges.

Hard-Light Bridges can also be covered in  Mobility Gels  (  Repulsion Gel  ,
Propulsion Gel  ), allowing the player to use the gels in places where it
normally would just fall through. Gels placed on Hard-Light Bridges are not
permanent and disappear the moment the bridge dissipates or moves to a
different location or when  Atlas  and  P-body  die.

A Hard Light Bridge will prevent the  Sentry Turret  from even detecting the
enemy.

##  Appearances

###  Portal 2 Single-Player Campaign

  * Portal 2 Chapter 3 Test Chamber 11  (introduced) 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 3 Test Chamber 12 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 3 Test Chamber 15 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 3 Test Chamber 17 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 4 Test Chamber 18 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 4 Test Chamber 21 (Escape) 
  * Portal 2 Chapter 8 Test Chamber 6 

###  Portal 2 Multi-Player Campaign

  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 1  (introduced) 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 2 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 3 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 4 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 5 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 6 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 7 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 3 Chamber 8 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 4 Chamber 9 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 5 Chamber 3 
  * Portal 2 Co-op Course 5 Chamber 4 

###  Sixense MotionPack DLC

  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Test Chamber 4  (introduced) 
  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Test Chamber 7 
  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Co-op Test Chamber 2 
  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Co-op Test Chamber 4 
  * Portal 2 Sixense MotionPack DLC Co-op Test Chamber 5 

