_“I can't get over how small you are!”_  
**This article is a stub  ** . As such, it is not complete. You can help
Portal wiki by  expanding it  .  
  
  
A High Energy Pellet in _Portal_ “

While safety is one of many Enrichment Center goals, the Aperture Science High
Energy Pellet, seen to the left of the chamber, can and has caused permanent
disabilities such as vaporization.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
The **High Energy Pellet** is a  puzzle mechanic  introduced in _ Portal  _ .
It is a fast-moving energy ball, fired by an emitter built into a  Test
Chamber  surface and usually accompanied by a receptacle that catches it.
Players direct the ball into the receptacle to activate lifts or devices
before it dissipates and explodes. The ball is extremely volatile, and as such
instantly vaporizes test subjects on contact.  Turrets  , however, will be
knocked over by it.

##  Contents

  * 1  Portal 
  * 2  Portal 2 
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Puzzle Creator item properties (If BEEMOD is installed) 
  * 5  Trivia 
  * 6  Seen in 

##  Portal

The High Energy Pellet was a common puzzle mechanic in Portal. It first
appeared in  Portal Test Chamber 06  and made recurrent appearances throughout
the game. Test Chamber 19 features two versions of the High Energy Pellet, the
standard yellow High Energy Pellet as well as a green High Energy Pellet. As
the green one does not dissipate and explode, it is sometimes colloquially
known as the **Super High Energy Pellet** .

##  Portal 2

The High Energy Pellet itself does not make an appearance in  Portal 2  ;
however, its emitter and receptacle do. These appear in  Chamber 1 of Portal
2's second chapter  , which is identical to  Test Chamber 06  of Portal
(albeit run down and degraded). However, this similarity is removed when
GLaDOS  replaces the items with those of the Thermal Discouragement Beam. They
are also present in  Chamber 7 of Portal 2's first chapter  , as this chamber
is simply a run-down version of Portal's  Test Chamber 07  . The catcher
appears in the ruins of  Test Chamber 19  from Portal and is visible once
Chell  moves towards the exit after being dropped in the incinerator.

The high-energy pellet is functional in Portal 2, however, it is missing its
sounds and models, although there are fan-made modifications that restore its
functionality.

