Chell's Long Fall Boots  “

You know what? Go ahead and jump. You've got braces on your legs. No braces on
your arms, though. Gonna have to rely on the old human strength to keep a grip
on the device and, by extension, me. So do. Do make sure to maintain a grip.  

Click to listen

— **Wheatley**

”  
  
The **Long Fall Boots** , or simply known as the **Boots** , were worn by
human Test Subjects during the testing of the  Handheld Portal Device  in the
Aperture Science  Enrichment Center. These boots were created to resolve a
"reproducible human error problem", where test subjects were falling too far
and injuring themselves, which caused them to drop the  Portal device  , which
could damage it.

These boots are worn by  Chell  , the protagonist in the single-player
campaign of _ Portal 2  _ .

##  Overview

Taking place after the events of _ Portal  _ ,  Chell  's  Advanced Knee
Replacements  were torn apart during the _ Portal 2: Lab Rat  _ comic. As a
result, the  Party Escort Bot  later fits her into the Long Fall Boots prior
to her awakening in _Portal 2_ .

The boots were designed to prevent human Test Subjects from injuring
themselves when falling from great heights at any speed, even terminal
velocity. Although the boots appear to be a safety precaution for the benefit
of Test Subjects, the rationale behind their creation was by no means
altruistic. In fact, the Long Fall Boots were created in order to protect the
Handheld Portal Device  from being destroyed when Test Subjects fell from
extreme heights. Although Test Subjects were considered expendable,
manufacturing Handheld Portal Devices required significant expenditure.

The Long Fall Boots appear to have a strengthening or tightening force around
the legs down to the feet. This effect can be heard every time Chell lands
onto a surface after falling from great velocities.

Despite appearing more logical and useful for its ability to shield entire
feet and legs, it remains unknown as to why these boots were not implemented
on Chell any sooner instead.

##  See also

  * Boots (Video) 
  * Advanced Knee Replacement 

Retrieved from "
https://theportalwiki.com/w/index.php?title=Long_Fall_Boots&oldid=166010  "

