The Material Emancipation Grill as it appears in _Portal 2_ .  “

This Aperture Science Material Emancipation Grill will vaporize any
unauthorized equipment that passes through it - for instance, the Aperture
Science Weighted Storage Cube.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
** Aperture Science  Material Emancipation Grills ** (also known as
**Emancipation Grills** or **Fizzlers** ), are shimmering, semi-transparent
particle fields that appear in the Aperture Science testing facilities.
Emancipation Grills disintegrate unauthorized Aperture Science equipment and
block any portal that passes through, while allowing the player and the
Handheld Portal Device  to pass without issue.

##  Contents

  * 1  Function 
  * 2  Appearances 
    * 2.1  Portal 
    * 2.2  Portal: Still Alive 
    * 2.3  Portal 2 
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Videos 
  * 5  Related achievements 
    * 5.1  Portal: Still Alive 
    * 5.2  Portal 2 
  * 6  Trivia 
  * 7  See also 

##  Function

The primary function of the Emancipation Grill is to vaporize unauthorized
Aperture Science equipment that passes through it while allowing test subjects
and the  Handheld Portal Device  to pass through. When something is vaporized,
the object turns black, hovers in mid-air, and disintegrates, emitting small
flames and sparks. In _ Portal 2  _ , this is accompanied with a loud sound
when the object comes in contact with the Grill. When a Sentry Turret passes
through the grill, it emits a long  "owowowowowowowow"  sound as it
disintegrates. Similarly, a  radio  passing through a grill will play a
jumbled and distorted sound along with plenty of audio feedback. The
Emancipation Grill will glow brightly in _Portal 2_ as objects approach it to
warn the player that it will vaporize the object once they come into contact.
Portals also cannot pass through the Grill.

The Emancipation Grill also causes the Handheld Portal Device to shake,
signaling that it has "rebooted", and that any portals that have been placed
have now been removed. This functions to give the player a clean slate upon
starting a new test. It also prevents players from navigating the Aperture
Science testing facilities quickly by using portals.

An unforeseen consequence of repeated use of the Emancipation Grill has shown
to emancipate  teeth, tooth enamel, crowns, fillings  , and  ear canals  .

##  Appearances

###  Portal

See also:  Portal  __

In _Portal_ , the Emancipation Grills appear as incandescent particle fields
in many different locations.

###  Portal: Still Alive

See also:  Portal: Still Alive  __

In _Portal: Still Alive_ , the Emancipation Grills appear as incandescent
particle fields in many different locations.

###  Portal 2

See also:  Portal 2  __

In _Portal 2_ , Emancipation Grills appear more solid in nature compared to
_Portal_ . They are light blue in coloring and have a shimmering water-like
appearance. In the  developer commentary  , it was noted that they look this
way to appear more "safe" to players, while still showing that there is a
barrier to inanimate objects. An additional sound has now been added as an
object disintegrates.

