P-body  “

Blue! Orange has always been my favorite.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
**P-body** (referred to as **Orange** by  GLaDOS  ), is  Atlas  ' tall and
wiry partner in testing, and is one of the two playable android Test Subjects
built by GLaDOS for the  Cooperative Testing Initiative  in _Portal 2_ , which
was devised to phase out human testing.

Gameplay-wise, P-body is played by the guest of the Co-op session; the player
that receives an invitation, or the second player on a home console in split-
screen mode.

##  Contents

  * 1  Biography 
  * 2  Gestures 
    * 2.1  Unlockable gestures 
    * 2.2  Purchasable gestures 
  * 3  Development and Acting 
  * 4  Gallery 
  * 5  Videos 
  * 6  Trivia 
  * 7  See also 

##  Biography

P-body is an orange eyed  Core  with a design similar to that of a  Turret  ,
and is portrayed to have somewhat less masculinity than in Atlas - if not a
hint of femininity.  GLaDOS had created the Cooperative Testing Initiative
after her awakening in _Portal 2_ , as a means of replacing  Chell  as her
only Test Subject.  Along with Atlas, the two bots are pitted against a series
of tests built by GLaDOS herself, utilizing the many different  mechanics
previously encountered by Chell from the game's single-player campaign.

It was later revealed by GLaDOS that Atlas and P-body's Cores are programmed
specifically to do nothing more but tests.

During the final phases of testing, GLaDOS reveals that, while the Cooperative
Testing Initiative has its uses, she needs human testing for science, not
robots. GLaDOS reveals that there are humans locked away, deep within the
ancient Aperture facilities. There the bots will be tasked with navigating the
old test chambers and unlock the massive vault containing the humans,
seemingly kept in place by some form of cryogenic storage. By doing this, they
'save science'. However, almost immediately after the robots unlock the room
containing the test subjects, they are destroyed. They are eventually rebuilt
and, during the credits, Atlas sits at a computer desk and watches P-body
playing on a conveyor belt.

##  Gestures

Main article:  P-body gestures  __

###  Unlockable gestures

Name  How To Unlock  Description  
Small Wave  Default gesture, available from the beginning.  This gesture makes
P-body wave her hand.  
High Five  Complete the  Calibration Course  Can only be performed when P-body
is near Atlas. If one of the bots decides to perform the High Five, the other
one will do it too.  
Rock Paper Scissors  Complete the  fourth chamber of the Team Building Course
.  Can only be performed when P-body is near Atlas. If one of the bots decides
to play a game of Rock Paper Scissors, the other one will take part in it too.
Depending on the outcome, the bots will react to it by cheering or showing
disappointment.  
Laugh  Complete the  Team Building Course  .  This gesture makes P-body laugh.  
Robot Dance  Complete the  fifth chamber of the Mass and Velocity Course  .
This gesture makes P-body perform a dance move called the 'Wave'.  
Team Tease  Complete the  Mass and Velocity Course  .  Can only be performed
when P-body is near Atlas. In this gesture, P-body takes the head part of
Atlas and holds it in the air while laughing. Atlas will try to reach for his
head two times before kicking P-body, making his head fall back into his body.  
Team Hug  Complete the  eighth chamber of the Hard Light Surfaces Course  Can
only be performed when P-body is near Atlas. Self-explanatory.  
Trick Fire  Complete the  fourth chamber of the Excursion Funnels Course  .
This gesture shows how skillfully P-body can shoot her Portal gun.  
  
###  Purchasable gestures

Item  Image  Description  
  
P-BODY SITSPIN  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to show her partner her funky dance moves, by
sitting on the ground and spinning in a 360 degree manner.  
  
P-BODY FACEPALM  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to show her disapproval with an open palm to the
face.  
  
P-BODY SHRUG  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to show her current thoughts on the situation by
shrugging confoundedly.  
  
P-BODY THUMBS UP  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to show her encouragement through a thumbs-up.  
  
P-BODY FIST PUMP  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to show her excitement, through fist-pumping.  
  
P-BODY PRETZEL WAVE  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to say hello to her partner in a unique way, by
bending her body into a pretzel-like form and waving.  
  
P-BODY SPIN JUMP  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to jump and spin in the air whenever she feels like
it.  
  
P-BODY SELFSPIN  
Level 1 Gesture

This gesture allows P-body to spin her body around in a rapid, 360 degree
manner for an easy way to survey her surroundings.  
  
  

##  Development and Acting

Both P-body and Atlas are voiced by  Dee Bradley Baker  .

