“

Thank you for assuming the party escort submission position.  

Click to listen

— **Party Escort Bot**

”  
  
The **Party Escort Bot** or **Party Associate** , is a mysterious pink-eyed
core  and android that was originally cut from _ Portal  _ until it was later
added  into the game's ending  as part of the  March 3, 2010 patch  .

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
  * 2  Development and acting 
  * 3  Trivia 
  * 4  Gallery 
  * 5  List of appearances 
  * 6  References 
  * 7  See also 

##  Overview

During the events of _ Portal  _ ,  GLaDOS  refers to the Party Associate
after failing her attempt to kill  Chell  at the end of the  final test
chamber  . As Chell did not follow GLaDOS as the latter instructed her to
"place the device on the ground, then lie on [her] stomach with [her] arms at
[her] sides" which was described as the "party escort submission position", it
is presumed that the Party Escort Bot was required to travel to the surface in
order to retrieve her and "escort her to the party".

Prior to the  March 3, 2010 patch  , _Portal_ ended with  Chell  slowly
regaining consciousness on the parking lot above the  Aperture Science
Enrichment Center. Since the patch was added to bridge the gap between
_Portal_ and _ Portal 2  _ , Chell is instead slowly and unwillingly dragged
back towards the facility by the unseen Party Escort Bot as it thanks her for
"assuming the party escort submission position".

The Party Escort Bot is seen briefly in the _ Portal 2: Lab Rat  _ comic and
was only partially depicted, revealed to be a  core  -based android with a
pink eye.

Like most Aperture robots, the Party Escort Bot possesses a mechanical tone of
voice.

##  Development and acting

According to  Valve  writer Erik Wolpaw, the Party Escort Bot was initially
intended to be seen as an easter egg  during the escape chapter of _Portal_ .
Wolpaw describes the bot as something that will "presumably come to collect
Chell after she escapes the fiery death that GLaDOS had prepared for her".  [
1  ]  Currently, the voice actor behind the Party Associate has yet to be
named and may likely just be someone who worked at Valve at the time.

