_“I can't get over how small you are!”_  
**This article is a stub  ** . As such, it is not complete. You can help
Portal wiki by  expanding it  .  
  
  
A Piston in _Portal_ “

You really shouldn't be here. This isn't safe for you.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
**Pistons** are a hazard present in _Portal,_ though are also sometimes
required to be used as more of a game mechanic to continue through the map.
Pistons kill the player by squishing them. The crusher is similar to the
piston.

##  Portal

_Portal_ did not feature pistons until late in the game, during Chell's
escape. In _Portal_ , pistons serve primarily as a hazard, as a player who is
caught between a piston and a wall will be crushed and killed. That said,
there are times where Pistons are instrumental to a player's success, such as
providing a bridge in  Escape 1  or propelling the player through a portal in
Escape 2  .

Two types of pistons are present in _Portal_ , a cylindrical piston and a
rectangular piston. The rectangular pistons are only seen once and are used to
elevate Chell in order to for her to create a portal on an otherwise
unreachable surface.

##  Portal 2

Pistons do not make as many appearances _Portal 2_ as they did in _Portal._
Often their purposes are fulfilled through crushers where the pistons would be
hazards and panels where the pistons assisted the player's progress. The only
instance of pistons is found during the first  Conversion Gel  test. Their
main lack of appearance is likely due to the progression of the game  , as
Chell does not pass through the bowels of modern Aperture to the extent of her
passage in Portal, and the older Aperture Science facilities likely did not
function in the same manner as modern Aperture  .

v  •  d  •  e

Mechanics  
_ Portal  _

Chamberlock  ·  Emergency Intelligence Incinerator  ·  Electricity Field  ·
Flinging  ·  Goo  ·  Heavy Duty Super-Colliding Super Button  ·  High Energy
Pellet  ·  Material Emancipation Grill  ·  Pedestal Button  ·  Piston  ·
Portals  ·  Portal Spawner  ·  Surfaces  ·  Unstationary Scaffold  ·  Victory
Lift

Cubes

Weighted Companion  ·  Weighted Storage  
  
Tubes

Vital Apparatus Vent  
  
Unused content

Crushers  
  
_ Portal 2  _

Aerial Faith Plate  ·  Chamberlock  ·  Circuit Breaker  ·  Crushers  ·
Edgeless Safety Cube Receptacle  ·  Excursion Funnel  ·  Flinging  ·  Fire
Suppression System  ·  Goo  ·  Hard Light Bridge  ·  Heavy Duty Super-
Colliding Super Button  ·  Laser Field  ·  Material Emancipation Grill  ·
Panels  ·  Pedestal Button  ·  Ping Tool  ·  Piston  ·  Portals  ·  Portal
Spawner  ·  Shredder  ·  Surfaces  ·  Thermal Discouragement Beam  ·
Unstationary Scaffold  ·  Victory Lift

Cubes

Contraption Cube  ·  Discouragement Redirection  ·  Edgeless Safety  ·
Scalable Cube  ·  Weighted Companion  ·  Weighted Storage  
  
Tubes

Pneumatic Diversity Vent  ·  Vital Apparatus Vent  
  
Gels

Conversion  ·  Propulsion  ·  Repulsion  
  
Unused content

Adhesion Gel  ·  Reflection Gel  
  
Retrieved from "
https://theportalwiki.com/w/index.php?title=Piston&oldid=169340  "

