A curious  P-body  testing and playing with the Portal Gun.  “

Momentum, a function of mass and velocity, is conserved between portals. In
layman's terms: Speedy-thing goes in, speedy-thing comes out.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
**Portals** are the primary gameplay  mechanic  of the _Portal_ series.
Portals can only be placed on white, stationary (except for one occasion in
Portal 2  ), flat surfaces by an  Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device  ,
and works in pairs thereby allowing two-way movement through each portal.

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
    * 1.1  Pre-release designs 
  * 2  Portal 2 
  * 3  Gameplay exploits 
    * 3.1  Reportalling 
    * 3.2  Portal bumping 
  * 4  Tips 
  * 5  Notes 
  * 6  Gallery 
    * 6.1  Portal colors 
    * 6.2  Pre-release designs 
  * 7  Closed Captions 
  * 8  Trivia 
  * 9  References 

##  Overview

Portals act as a direct link between one another. Anything that goes into one
portal comes instantly out the other. Objects going at high speed into a
portal (such as falling into one from great height) will maintain their speed
when coming out of the other, giving the player the ability to launch
themselves or other objects through the air. Portals are also capable of
continuing any sort of beam, specifically the  Excursion Funnels  ,  Thermal
Discouragement Beams  , and  Hard Light Bridges  . If only one portal in a
pair exists at the moment, the existing portal is an oval completely filled in
with color. When attempting to enter an unpaired portal, it will act as a
solid wall. When both portals in a pair exist, they will appear to be like
windows. When looking through one portal, you can see directly out the other.
When a portal is linked, you can identify which portal it is by looking at its
colored border.

Once the player obtains the Portal Device, they can create a portal on a
surface by aiming at the spot they want to put the portal and pressing the
primary or secondary fire key. If the player has only acquired the Single
Portal Device, both fire keys produce the primary portal color. If they have
acquired the Dual Portal Device, the primary fire key produces the primary
color and the secondary fire key produces the secondary color. Portals cannot
be placed on surfaces that are not made of the appropriate material (white
walls usually indicate this material), moving, not flat, or not large enough
for a portal to fit onto it. Portals can be placed on surfaces made out of
concrete  or moon rocks, as stated by Cave Johnson in _ Portal 2  _ .  Portals
also cannot be placed while looking through currently existing portals.

Portals are very likely moving at the  speed of light  , this is proven by the
time taken to shoot a portal to the moon in the finale of _ Portal 2  _ .

Portals transmit matter and light, this is proven by the fact that  Excursion
Funnels, Thermal Discouragement Beams and Hard Light Bridges  can pass through
portals

In _ Portal  _ and the single-player campaign of _ Portal 2  _ , protagonist
and test subject  Chell  can create blue (primary) and orange (secondary)
portals with her version of the Dual Portal Gun. In _Portal 2_ 's  co-op
campaign, each robot test subject possesses individual portal colors in order
to differentiate them;  Atlas  creates cyan (primary) and indigo (secondary)
portals, whereas  P-body  creates yellow (primary) and red (secondary)
portals.

###  Pre-release designs

The portals have had several changes in design before the final release of
_Portal_ in October 10, 2007, as evident in some trailers and screenshots.  [
1  ]  Even Earlier development screenshots from _Portal_ revealed that the
original colors for the portals were light blue (primary-fire) and purple
(secondary-fire), with the portals more resembling like rifts ripped into a
dimension than the simpler oval designs in the current series. Later, the
purple color was replaced with red, akin to  P-Body  's secondary-fire in
_Portal 2_ . At some point, the developers decided to maintain the blue and
orange color schemes previously used as portals in _ Narbacular Drop  _ .

##  Portal 2

Atlas  and  P-body  should enter even portals one after another otherwise they
may collide which may even cause death one or both (  Portal 2 Co-op Course 3
Chamber 4  ).  [  2  ]  One can constantly jump and second can crouch before
flinging  .

##  Gameplay exploits

###  Reportalling

With some movements, the player is able to boost their momentum when traveling
through two portals placed on the floor by using their primary or secondary
fire key as they exit the portal they are going through, respectively. This is
caused by the portals giving a push to the player from a portal if the portal
is re-placed somewhere else (or in this case, in the same place).

###  Portal bumping

When placing a portal onto another portal, the other portal will get bumped to
a position that is next to the first placed one. By using this glitch, players
can skip some chambers in both games -  Portal Test Chamber 16  (just the
first speech and the glass clip),  Portal Test Chamber 17  (all the way to the
incinerator room), and in the second game the player can get into some
observation rooms with this glitch (for example, the one in the first laser
relay map).

##  Tips

An unpaired  portal  can be beneficial later (  Portal 2 Co-op Course 3
Chamber 2  ).

##  Notes

  * There is no difference between the two modes of  Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device  and two kinds of portals in  Portal 2  . 

