_“This is just a thought experiment, just to see how much time you'll waste
thinking about these worthless documents. The correct time is zero seconds.”_  
This page is  **SPOILER HEAVY** .  
You can toggle spoilers with the 'Spoilers' tab at the top of each page.
Hidden text can also be revealed by highlighting it.  
  
Chell, as seen in _Portal_

Throughout the _Portal_ series, you take on the role of  Chell  , a young
woman trapped within the  Aperture Science  facility. Chell is forced to solve
tests of varying difficulty in  chambers  designed by a psychopathic AI named
GLaDOS  . During the early stages of the testing, Chell is granted usage of
the  Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device  (commonly referred to as the
portal gun), a piece of equipment developed by Aperture Science that allows
Chell to create  portals  that act as gates between each other, allowing Chell
to quickly traverse areas or reach normally unreachable places.

##  Contents

  * 1  Portal 
    * 1.1  Act 1: _The Test Chambers_
    * 1.2  Act 2:  _The Escape_
  * 2  Portal: Still Alive 
  * 3  Portal 2: Lab Rat 
    * 3.1  Part 1 
    * 3.2  Part 2 
  * 4  Portal 2 
    * 4.1  Single-player 
      * 4.1.1  Chapter 1: _The Courtesy Call_ (Act 1) / Chapter 2: _The Cold Boot_ (Act 2) 
        * 4.1.1.1  Locations 
      * 4.1.2  Chapter 3: _The Return_ / Chapter 4: _The Surprise_
        * 4.1.2.1  Locations 
      * 4.1.3  Chapter 5: _The Escape_
        * 4.1.3.1  Locations 
      * 4.1.4  Chapter 6: _The Fall_ (Act 3) 
        * 4.1.4.1  Locations 
      * 4.1.5  Chapter 7: _The Reunion_
        * 4.1.5.1  Locations 
      * 4.1.6  Chapter 8: _The Itch_ (Act 4) 
        * 4.1.6.1  Locations 
      * 4.1.7  Chapter 9: _The Part Where He Kills You  _
        * 4.1.7.1  Locations 
    * 4.2  Co-op 
      * 4.2.1  Course 1: _Team Building_
      * 4.2.2  Course 2: _Mass and Velocity_
      * 4.2.3  Course 3: _Hard-Light Surfaces_
      * 4.2.4  Course 4: _Excursion Funnels_
      * 4.2.5  Course 5: _Mobility Gels_
  * 5  Trivia 

##  Portal

Main article:  Portal  __

_Portal_ has two distinct parts, the test chambers, and the escape.

###  Act 1: _The Test Chambers_

Main article:  Portal 1 Test Chambers  __

The game begins with Chell awakening in a  Relaxation Vault  , where she is
briefed by the voice of  GLaDOS  coming from speakers, before being released
through a portal. The player is introduced to the testing process and
mechanics, shortly thereafter obtaining the  Aperture Science Handheld Portal
Device  . As Chell makes her way through test chambers, it becomes clear  the
facility is devoid of human life and GLaDOS is testing Chell for her own
warped definition of 'science'. Throughout the facility are hidden dens,
containing mad scribblings from an  unseen person  warning others of GLaDOS.
Motivated with the promise of  cake  at the end of the testing, Chell is put
through tests of increasing complexity.  When Chell is no longer of any use to
GLaDOS, she attempts to kill Chell by lowering her into an incinerator.
Quickly thinking, Chell escapes a fiery fate using the Handheld Portal Device,
and she makes her way through the inner facility via maintenance shafts.

###  Act 2:  _The Escape_

While Chell is making her way through the facility, GLaDOS attempts to lure
her back with promises of cake and a party, and claims the attempted murder of
the player was a misunderstanding. When she realizes her attempts are in vain,
GLaDOS resorts to taunting Chell while continuing her efforts to kill her.
Eventually, Chell reaches GLaDOS' lair, where she finally comes face to face
with the rogue AI. It is revealed that GLaDOS had murdered everyone in the
facility using deadly  neurotoxin  . GLaDOS now attempts to do the same to
Chell. Using the Portal Device, Chell defeats GLaDOS by removing her
personality cores  and depositing them in a nearby  Emergency Intelligence
Incinerator  , resulting in a large explosion that blows a hole in the roof
dragging both Chell and GLaDOS upwards. Chell awakens to find herself above
ground in the parking lot of the facility, with the burning remains of GLaDOS
surrounding her. The  March 3, 2010 Patch  modified the ending so that Chell
is dragged back into the facility by the unseen  Party Escort Bot  , that is
connected to the  Portal 2: Lab Rat  comic.

##  Portal: Still Alive

Main article:  Portal: Still Alive  __

_Portal: Still Alive_ is an XBOX Live Arcade port of _Portal_ , containing
additional content in the form of new advanced chambers, inspired by  Portal:
The Flash Version  , with no additional story material. This version of the
game is not canon to the story, as it's confirmed by anonymous Valve
developers.

##  Portal 2: Lab Rat

Main article:  Portal 2: Lab Rat  __

The Lab Rat comic bridges the gap between _Portal_ and _Portal 2_ , which
introduces us to  Doug Rattmann  , a scientist at Aperture Science  who
survived the Neurotoxin after GLaDOS' first activation at the Bring Your
Daughter to Work Day, which made her self-aware and initiated a lockdown on
the facility, and killed most of the scientists with neurotoxin.

###  Part 1

Part 1 follows  Doug Rattmann  as he is tracking  Chell  through the
Enrichment Center  . He is having a monologue about reality and how the mind
sees it and is shown to be psychotic, forced to take  ziaprazidone  [sic] to
curb the effects of his schizophrenia. Through the story, he carries a
Companion Cube  that he hears talking to him and giving him advice. The main
story is also intersected with flashbacks of the period during which GLaDOS
was still being built, showing Rattmann's involvement in the project.

Soon after discovering Chell, it appears he has not taken his medication for a
while, and he takes his two final pills, against the Companion Cube's advice
not to take them. A first flashback is shown, with a younger Rattmann
overhearing two colleagues saying they put cameras in the cameras, something
that an unidentified person is not to suspect. While he runs through the
facility and makes another mural, Chell reaches  Test Chamber 19  ,  and
finally GLaDOS' chamber, where she destroys her.

Then another flashback set in GLaDOS' chamber is shown. There Rattmann is seen
working with his colleague  Henry  , who compares their breakthrough with
GLaDOS to  Einstein  discovering  relativity  and  NASA  reaching the  Moon  .
Rattmann expresses his doubts about GLaDOS' reliability,  since she always
attempts to kill everyone when being powered.

Back to reality,  Rattmann reaches for the surface, where he thinks Chell is.
When he finds her, the  Party Escort Bot  is dragging her back into the
facility.

Then a third flashback has Henry showing Rattmann the newly designed  Morality
Core  ,  which is supposed to dampen GLaDOS' urge to kill.

Again back to reality, the Cube tells Rattmann to run away while he is
outside, but feeling he is responsible for the whole mess, he prefers to get
back inside,  and save her.

###  Part 2

Part 2 opens with Doug Rattmann traversing the innards of the facility. The
Companion Cube informs him that the anti-psychotic he took in Part 1 is
starting to work, as the Cube slowly fades to silence.  Doug finds Chell in
her Cryo-Chamber in the  Relaxation Center  , where the Party Escort Bot has
placed her. He decides to try to save her by getting to Cryo-Control, but the
Sentry Turrets block his way. Finding a panel in the wall, he quickly realizes
that GLaDOS' destruction blew the main power grid and that all the Cryo-
Chambers have gone offline as a result, including Chell's. Doug then attempts
to run past the Turrets but is struck down.

Time for another flashback, this time set after  GLaDOS has flooded the
Enrichment Center with her neurotoxin.  Rattmann,  apparently the only
survivor,  is taunted by GLaDOS about his schizophrenia as he escapes from the
main testing facility. While GLaDOS continues to taunt and manipulate him,
Rattmann manages to reach the file room where he finds  Chell's file,
declaring that she's "the one", then puts her on top of the Test Subject list.

Back to reality, Rattmann is lying on the floor, wounded by the Turrets,
reaches out to his Companion Cube but loses consciousness.

Another flashback begins, involving Henry having a conversation with GLaDOS.
During the conversation, she tells him she  has lost all interest in killing
since she was fitted with a  Morality Core  and that she  would like to
perform a recreation of the  Schrödinger's cat  experiment during "Bring Your
Cat to Work Day". She says that added to the boxes and the cats, she needs a
little  neurotoxin  . Henry,  unaware of her malicious intentions,  accepts,
"as long as it's for science",  thus sealing the employees' fate.

Doug regains consciousness, and his schizophrenia has returned. The Cube can
talk again and asks about  Chell being "the one" and how Doug knew she is,  to
which he admits it was just a hunch. The Cube then tells Doug to  patch
Chell's Cryo-Unit in the reserve grid to restart her life support, which works
but keeps Chell in an everlasting sleep until she is woken up, "both alive and
dead until someone opens the box".

Exhausted, Rattmann crawls into the bed of a  Relaxation Vault  and presumably
falls asleep. It was later revealed by Valve that Rattmann  was long dead
before the events of Portal 2  [citation needed]  . On the floor, Chell's
files scatter on the ground, showing that she should not be tested, as she is
"abnormally stubborn and never ever gives up. Ever."

##  Portal 2

Main article:  Portal 2  __

###  Single-player

####  Chapter 1: _The Courtesy Call_ (Act 1) / Chapter 2: _The Cold Boot_ (Act
2)

Following the events of _ Portal 2: Lab Rat  _ , Chell is awoken 50 days later
in her relaxation chamber, which has the appearance of a motel room, for a
'mandatory physical and mental wellness exercise'. After a brief 'exercise',
Chell returns to her sleep. She is awoken an undetermined amount of time later
(a pre-recorded message says "  Hello, you have been in suspension for - NINE
NINE NINE NINE NINE NINE NI-  "), to the room intercom warning of an imminent
core explosion. Her room is in a state of disrepair, and soon, an unfamiliar
voice greets her. Upon opening the door she finds herself face to face with a
more modern-looking  Personality Core  whose name is later revealed to be
Wheatley  , the jovial AI in charge of the test subjects storage facility.
After warning Chell of the likelihood of her having serious brain damage,
Wheatley moves her relaxation chamber through the storage facility, crashing
several times and largely destroying the room in the process, all the while
ranting about the huge responsibility of taking care of the test subjects.
After successfully navigating the room to the main testing facility, Wheatley
instructs Chell to go retrieve a "  gun that makes holes  ," as it will be
needed for their escape from the facility. Upon successfully acquiring the
device, Wheatley and Chell make their way to GLaDOS' chamber where Wheatley
claims an escape pod to the surface is located. They find the chamber
partially destroyed, with overgrown wildlife everywhere, and in the middle of
the chamber lies the lifeless body of GLaDOS. After reaching the breaker room
under the chamber, Wheatley attempts to find the breaker for the lift. In the
process, he inadvertently reboots GLaDOS. Bitter at the cause of her death,
she crushes Wheatley and tosses him away before dropping Chell into the
Emergency Intelligence Incinerator  , into the incinerator room. GLaDOS
instructs Chell to retrieve the Dual-Portal Device, before guiding her back
into the facility's test chambers by navigating backward through  Test Chamber
19  . Fixing the broken down facility while Chell is once again put through
testing, GLaDOS, bitter at her murder, informs Chell that her  black box
forced her to relive her own murder again and again **forever** .

#####  Locations

  * _Emergency Test Track Chambers 00-08_
  * _GLaDOS' Test Track Chambers 01-08_
  * _GLaDOS' Chamber_
  * _Emergency Test Chamber 19_
  * _Incinerator Room_

####  Chapter 3: _The Return_ / Chapter 4: _The Surprise_

When GLaDOS isn't watching, Wheatley pops out from behind a test chamber wall
and reveals he survived their encounter with GLaDOS. He asks Chell to play
along with the testing until he figures out a way for them to escape. GLaDOS'
taunts become more vindictive, at one point pretending to reunite the 'orphan'
Chell with her family. It becomes clear that Chell does not have much time
left, as GLaDOS insinuates her usefulness is coming to an end. While in a test
chamber, the power is cut out and Wheatley reveals himself from behind a wall
panel, under the false impression GLaDOS cannot detect him. When she does, he
and Chell make a run for it through the inner facility with GLaDOS attempting
to halt their progress.

#####  Locations

  * _Sectors 37 & 48 _
  * _GLaDOS' Test Track Chambers 09-22 (out of 22 total, Wheatley breaks in at 21 and guides Chell at 21 and 22)_
  * _Facility_
  * _Turret Manufacturing Chamberlock Entrance_

####  Chapter 5: _The Escape_

Along the way, they pass a 'potato power' exhibition, held on the ill-fated
'Bring Your Daughter to Work Day. While making their way through the  Turret
production facility, Wheatley reveals he plans to sabotage the Turrets and
neurotoxin supply so that when they face GLaDOS she will be unarmed. They
successfully carry out their plan by replacing the master Turret template with
a  Defective Turret  and using  portals  to redirect a  Thermal Discouragement
Beam  to cut off the neurotoxin supply lines. Hopeful, they make their way to
GLaDOS' chamber once again for a showdown. GLaDOS, once again, attempts to
kill Chell but is unsuccessful due to Wheatley's and Chell's sabotage. It is
at this point that the  Announcer  informs them that the central core, GLaDOS,
is 80% corrupt and because Wheatley is present, a core transfer is
initialized. This requires both cores' approval, and when GLaDOS objects, a
stalemate is reached. The Announcer informs them that a stalemate associate is
required to press a stalemate resolution button for the core transfer to
occur. GLaDOS desperately attempts to block Chell from doing so but is
unsuccessful, and the core transfer occurs. Wheatley is transferred into
GLaDOS' body and she is removed from power. In a jubilant mood, Wheatley sends
Chell on her way to the surface. He begins laughing, but it becomes unusually
powerful for Wheatley. He lowers Chell back down, going on about how he did
it. GLaDOS taunts him, telling him that Chell did all the work, and in a fit
of rage, he takes her core apart and places her in a potato battery. He tells
Chell that he is the boss now and that she can no longer order him around.
PotatOS is then shown off; Wheatley's attempt is to humiliate her. It is at
this point GLaDOS reveals that Wheatley was designed to be a moron, in order
to dampen GLaDOS' brainpower so that she wouldn't attempt to murder everyone
in the facility. Angered by this revelation, Wheatley throws her in the lift
with Chell and in a fit of rage smashes the lift downwards, where the lift
floor collapses, and they fall into the depths of the facility.

#####  Locations

  * _Turret Manufacturing Area_
  * _Turret Redemption Line_
  * _Bring Your Daughter to Work Day Fair_
  * _Neurotoxin Generator_
  * _Ventilation System_
  * _GLaDOS' Chamber_

####  Chapter 6: _The Fall_ (Act 3)

Falling several miles down, Chell awakens to find herself in the very bowels
of Aperture and the ruins of the old facility. She witnesses the potato GLaDOS
being abducted by a bird before making her way through the ruins and entering
through a closed-off area to find the old Aperture Science facility. A voice
recording plays, welcoming the visitor to Aperture. The speaker introduces
himself as  Cave Johnson  , founder and CEO of Aperture, and introduces his
secretary,  Caroline  . As Chell makes her way through the old facility via
enrichment spheres, Cave Johnson guides the player through the tests while
gradually revealing the history behind Aperture. It is discovered that Cave
Johnson founded the company in the 1950s as a curtain manufacturer, becoming a
self-made billionaire, before expanding into a science research company. He
built the facility in large salt mines beneath  Michigan  with the intention
of competing with  Black Mesa  . In between lawsuits against his company for
various mishaps and his personal rivalry with Black Mesa, who he claims stole
much of his company's research, Cave slowly runs the company into the ground.

#####  Locations

  * _Aperture Science Innovators_
  * _Pump Stations Alpha and Beta_
  * _Repulsion Gel Testing Track_

####  Chapter 7: _The Reunion_

It is revealed that in a misguided move in the 1980s, Cave bought $70 million
worth of moon rocks to grind up. The resulting  gel  was toxic, and Cave
Johnson falls gravely ill. Chell is reunited with the potato GLaDOS, found in
a bird's nest, and GLaDOS insists they need to stop the corrupted Wheatley
before his actions cause the destruction of the facility. While traveling with
Chell, GLaDOS comes across a portrait of Cave Johnson and Caroline, whom she
finds vaguely familiar. She then finds herself unwittingly parroting a
conversation between Caroline and Cave Johnson. Highly stressed, she manages
to overload her battery and shuts it off temporarily. Cave Johnson's voice on
the recordings now sounds frail and it is clear his health is quickly
deteriorating. In a last-ditch attempt to survive, he instructs his engineers
to start research into artificial intelligence, so that his mind can be
transferred into a computer. Angry at the state of affairs, he instructs his
employees that if he dies before the AI is complete, Caroline is to take
charge of the facility, against her wishes. He also informs them that she can
take his place in the AI. No more recordings are made, but it becomes clear
that Caroline's mind was inserted into the AI, and is now a part of GLaDOS.
Learning this, GLaDOS' attitude slowly changes. She begins praising Chell's
progress and claims to have turned a new leaf. While making their way back up
to the facility, GLaDOS observes a poster about robot paradoxes and comes up
with a plan to stop Wheatley when they face him.

#####  Locations

  * _Propulsion Gel Testing Track_
  * _Pump Station Gamma_
  * _Transition Seal to Modern Aperture_

####  Chapter 8: _The Itch_ (Act 4)

Chell, and GLaDOS return to find the facility in chaos. Several core meltdowns
are in progress while Wheatley has been busy modifying the test chambers to
his liking, including constructing  Frankenturrets  \- crudely made walking
Turret/  Weighted Storage Cube  hybrids. They confront Wheatley and GLaDOS
attempts to shut him down by presenting him with a  logical paradox  . It
fails as he nonchalantly provides a false answer, apparently too stupid to
understand it. The Frankenturrets, however, short-circuit, humorously
indicating that they are smarter than Wheatley. Having Chell and GLaDOS back
in his clutches, Wheatley forces them to carry out his tests, revealing the
need to test is an 'itch' hardwired into the AI system. Initially, Wheatley is
satisfied with the testing but soon the euphoria of watching Chell and GLaDOS
being tested wears off, as he builds up a resistance to the euphoric response.
Growing frustrated with them, Wheatley hints he has found other test subjects
(  Atlas  and  P-body  ) and that he has a 'surprise to die for' coming soon.
He unleashes his surprise early when Chell steps on a booby-trapped  Aerial
Faith Plate  , which transports Chell and GLaDOS to a platform surrounded by
spiked crushing plates.

#####  Locations

  * _Wheatley's Test Track_
  * _Wheatley's Chambers 01 - 16_
  * _Decoy Test Chamber 17_
  * _Wheatley's Booby-Trap_
  * _Aperture Science Facility_

####  Chapter 9: _The Part Where He Kills You  _

Escaping the trap, Chell and GLaDOS make their escape through the inner
facility, avoiding Wheatley's attempts to kill them. They come across a room
containing rejected corrupted cores and GLaDOS formulates a plan. She stays
behind to carry it out while Chell makes her way to Wheatley's lair for the
final confrontation, where he reveals the facility will self-destruct in six
minutes. They do battle and during its course, Chell manages to attach 3
corrupted cores onto Wheatley. This results in a core corruption of 100% and
the Announcer intervenes to initiate a core transfer. GLaDOS inserts herself
as the substitute core and hurries Chell to press the stalemate resolution
button. Wheatley, anticipating this outcome, has booby-trapped the button and
it explodes as Chell attempts to press it. She survives the explosion, to the
disdain of Wheatley. With the last of her strength, she grabs the Handheld
Portal Device and shoots a portal at the Moon's surface. The resulting portals
cause everything in the room to be sucked into the vacuum of space, including
Chell, but she manages to hang on by grabbing hold of the panicking Wheatley.
GLaDOS uses a mechanical arm to detach Wheatley from his body, who is then
sucked into space and pulls Chell back through before closing the portal.
Chell wakes up later to find a worried  Atlas  and  P-body  watching over her
and GLaDOS back in her body and back in charge of the facility. She thanks
Chell for helping her find the Caroline inside her, before promptly deleting
all traces of her. She reveals she has become weary of trying to kill Chell,
and that the best course of the solution is to give Chell what she wants: her
freedom. She sends Chell on her way to the surface, where along the way she is
serenaded by a  Turret Opera  . Reaching the top, a door opens, and Chell
steps out into a picturesque sunny cornfield where the door promptly shuts
behind her. Taking in her freedom, GLaDOS surprises Chell by throwing out the
Weighted Companion Cube she incinerated in _Portal_ and the door down to the
facility is closed shut.

#####  Locations

  * _Wheatley's Traps_
  * _Decoy Test Chamber 75_
  * _Wheatlay's Lair_

The game ends with a wistful Wheatley floating aimlessly in space, admitting
if he was able to go back, he would say he was sorry.

###  Co-op

_“I can't get over how small you are!”_  
**This section is a stub  ** . As such, it is not complete. You can help
Portal wiki by  expanding it  .  
  
  
  
####  Course 1: _Team Building_

####  Course 2: _Mass and Velocity_

####  Course 3: _Hard-Light Surfaces_

####  Course 4: _Excursion Funnels_

####  Course 5: _Mobility Gels_

