Sentry Turret packaging  “

Hello friend.  

Click to listen

— **Sentry Turret**

”  
  
**Turrets** serve as one of the main testing obstacles in the _Portal_ series.
Armed with almost unlimited ammunition and deadly accuracy, they will attempt
to kill test subjects on sight.

Standard Sentry Turrets are voiced by  Ellen McLain  , while Defective Turrets
are voiced by  Nolan North  .

##  Contents

  * 1  General 
    * 1.1  Sentry Turret 
    * 1.2  Rocket Turret 
    * 1.3  Defective Turret 
    * 1.4  Frankenturret 
    * 1.5  Prima Donna Turret 
    * 1.6  Animal King Turret 
    * 1.7  Hover Turret 
  * 2  Appearances 
    * 2.1  _Portal_
    * 2.2  _Portal: Still Alive_
    * 2.3  _Portal 2_
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Videos 
  * 5  Trivia 
  * 6  Related achievements 
    * 6.1  _Portal_
    * 6.2  _Portal: Still Alive_
    * 6.3  _Portal 2_
  * 7  See also 
  * 8  References 

##  General

###  Sentry Turret

Main article:  Sentry Turret  __

The Sentry Turret

**Sentry Turrets** are tripod robots that appear in every game in the _Portal_
series. They are seen as incapable of independent movement, but can open each
side of their chassis (their "arms") horizontally in order to reveal twin
double-barreled machine guns. The central part of the chassis holds their red
eye, which emits a targeting laser. Almost all of the space within the Turret
is devoted to storing the ridiculously stacked ammo, explaining the nearly
infinite supply of ammo when firing. According to the _Portal 2_ Turrets
trailer, the turrets use spring mechanisms to accelerate the entire cartridge,
including the casing, without igniting the propellant, which may explain how
the player can survive getting shot by the Turret so many times. To quote Cave
Johnson, "that's 65% more bullet per bullet."

When test subjects are out of sight from the Turret's presence, they will
maintain a standby state and will remain motionless with their guns retracted.
Moving into their angle of sight however, will cause Turrets to deploy their
guns shortly after greeting the unlucky individual before opening fire. They
will continue to fire until the target is dead or moves out of sight. If the
latter occurs, Turrets will briefly search for the test subject (as indicated
by the movement of the targeting laser), after which they will revert to a
standby state.

Turrets can be avoided, disabled or destroyed in a number of ways. The most
common method is knocking them over, causing them to flail and fire wildly
before deactivating. This can be done by picking them up and dropping them, or
using any object to tip them over. Additionally, the  Discouragement Beams  or
Emancipation Grills  can be used to completely destroy them. When thrown into
an  Emancipation Grill  they will say  "ow" repeatedly  .

In Portal, Turrets will shoot at bulletproof glass and through portals when
the player is on the other side. In Portal 2, however, Turrets will only
follow the player behind glass with their beam and will not shoot through
portals, opening fire almost immediately when the player moves out of the
glass or through the portal. In addition, Turrets appear to be unable to see
through  Hard Light Bridges  or  Excursion Funnels  .

###  Rocket Turret

The Rocket Turret

The **Rocket Turret,** also called a **Rocket Sentry,** is a unique enemy seen
at the end of _ Portal  _ . It appears as a raw  personality core  outfitted
with a rocket launcher. Upon activation, it will slowly lock onto the player
and emit a sound before firing a rocket. Unlike Sentry turrets, it cannot be
disabled or destroyed by the player; Attempting to redirect a rocket back at
the turret with the use of portals will cause the projectile to fizzle upon
impact.  It plays a vital role in the battle with  GLaDOS  , as rockets need
to be sent through  portals  in order to hit her, causing  personality cores
to detach from her.

Rockets can also be redirected to shatter the observation windows and other
glass-made objects including a  Pneumatic Diversity Vent  throughout the
offices and maintenance areas of the Enrichment Center.

###  Defective Turret

Main article:  Defective Turret  __

The Defective Turret

**Defective Turrets** , referred to as "Crap Turrets" by  Wheatley  , are
incomplete, wrongly assembled and ammo-less versions of the Sentry Turrets
introduced in _ Portal 2  _ . Unlike normal Sentry Turrets, Defective Turrets
have a more humorous and sarcastic dialogue, and speak in a masculine, less
robotic voice with a southern accent.

They are harmless to  Chell  , many times making comments such as "If anyone
asks, I killed you". Their voice lines seem to imply they are blind, but they
are still aware of Chell's presence.  They are first encountered in Chapter 5,
_The Escape_ .

In the game's  co-op  campaign, the Defective Turrets appear as obstacles for
Atlas  and  P-body  throughout the _Mobility Gels_ testing course. These
Turrets appear to be as fully functional as regular Sentry Turrets and possess
the innocent and feminine voice tones as they should. The only difference from
regular Turrets is that they have been defaced. This is most likely because
Aperture Science  had not yet developed the modern casing.  One Defective
Turret in the final test chamber of this test course has evidently been
reconfigured by someone as, instead of serving as a typical testing obstacle,
before dying, it reveals that it  "needs to protect the humans"  .

###  Frankenturret

The Frankenturret

Main article:  Frankenturret  __

**Frankenturrets** are bizarre Sentry Turret-  Weighted Storage Cube  hybrids
in the single-player campaign of _Portal 2_ .  Created by  Wheatley  in order
to complete test chambers when he had no available test subjects, they are
first introduced in Chapter 8, _The Itch_ .

Frankenturrets do not speak, and instead emit incomprehensible chirping
sounds. They generally serve as  Wheatley's  replacement for Storage Cubes
once  Chell  is available as his test subject  . They are harmless, their the
only difference from normal cubes being that Frankenturrets will hop around
aimlessly when not placed on a  button  . When picked up by Chell, they
retract their legs inside the cube. If they fall over on their sides or upside
down, they will wave their legs, trying to get up.

###  Prima Donna Turret

The Turret Wife

The **Prima Donna Turret** (meaning _First Woman_ in Italian, a title given to
the lead singer, the diva, in an opera), referred by the game files as the
**Turret Wife** , and also known as the **Opera Turret** in the  Portal board
game  , is a bigger and wider Turret,  featured At the end of _Portal 2_ 's
single-player campaign during the  Turret Opera  , after  GLaDOS  finally
allows  Chell  her freedom to leave the Enrichment Center. As its name
implies, the Prima Donna Turret provides the lead vocals for the Turret Opera.

Apart from the ending, a Prima Donna Turret can also be found in the chapter
_The Return_ , at the end of Test Chamber 11, briefly seen taking a lift
upwards just as  Chell  enters the  Chamberlock  . It can also be found below
the  Rattmann  's den in the same chapter during Test Chamber 16, where it is
observing or lecturing a turret quartet.

  * In chapter 6 ( _The Fall_ ), broken Prima Donna Turrets can be found destroyed and burning on large piles along normal Sentry Turrets. 

###  Animal King Turret

The Animal King Turret

Main article:  Animal King Turret  __

The **Animal King Turret** is a unique type of turret in the single-player
campaign of _Portal 2_ that is only used in an Aperture Science slideshow to
represent an "Animal King Takeover" in the chapter, _The Courtesy Call_ . The
Turret is colossal in comparison to its Sentry Turret brethren, and appears to
operate the "arms" on its side in exactly the same way.

It can be distinguished from ordinary Turrets by its immense size, crown and
leopard skin-detailed chassis. In the context of the slideshow, the Animal
King Turret is used as an example of an entity or a form of organism capable
of taking control of Earth which "  ...refuses to, or is incapable of
listening to reason  ".

The Animal King Turret appears only once in the entire game,  during the
single-player ending sequence when  Chell  is being brought up to the surface
by GLaDOS after defeating Wheatley. It appears to be producing the lower bass
tones of the  Turret Opera  .

###  Hover Turret

The Hover Turret in-game

Main article:  Hover Turret  __

The **Hover Turret** is an unused Turret found within the game files of
_Portal 2_ . It uses the model of the  Curiosity Core  . It emits a laser,
similar to the other types of Turrets, that is coloured light-blue, similarly
to the Rocket Turret's targeting laser, and is able to burn the player similar
to the burn of the  Thermal Discouragement Beam  . However, unlike the Thermal
Discouragement Beam, its laser does not provide a barrier for the player's
movement, nor does it interact with game mechanics. The Hover Turret can be
spawned within _Portal 2_ via the cheat command ` ent_create npc_hover_turret
` , although it lacks a model by default, resulting in it appearing as a
bright blue ERROR.

##  Appearances

###  _Portal_

See also:  Portal  __

Turrets are introduced as testing hazards to  Chell  during the entirety of
Test Chamber 16  . Following this, they continue to appear throughout the
remaining test chambers and, eventually, during Chell's escape.

###  _Portal: Still Alive_

See also:  Portal: Still Alive  __

###  _Portal 2_

See also:  Portal 2  __

Turrets reprise their role as testing hazards to  Chell  and to  Atlas  and
P-body  for the game's  co-op  campaign, and they appear fairly early in the
game. Distinct versions of the Turrets are introduced, including the Defective
Turrets and Animal King Turret.

