_“I can't get over how small you are!”_  
**This article is a stub  ** . As such, it is not complete. You can help
Portal wiki by  expanding it  .  
  
  
The Unstationary Scaffold in transit in _Portal_ .  “

Good. Now use the Aperture Science Unstationary Scaffold to reach the
chamberlock.  

Click to listen

— **GLaDOS**

”  
  
An **Unstationary Scaffold** , also known as the **Track Platform** in the
Portal 2  Puzzle Creator  , is a platform that, when activated, moves
horizontally back and forth along a beam of blue light. It is used to access
previously unreachable places and to bridge gaps over deadly substances or
pitfalls. Some might stop after transporting the player across. The scaffold
also appears in Portal 2 and utilizes a design similar to that of the  Victory
Lift  .

  

##  Development

In the  developer commentary  of _Portal_ , players learn that originally, the
scaffold moved along a solid track, but playtesters found that they could
cheat a level by walking along the track. Then, the developers made the rail
'electrified', so that contact with it would kill the player. This seemed
harsh to playtesters, and made use of the scaffolds more difficult, as a
slight slip could kill the player. The developers then moved on to the current
design, where the scaffold is supported on a beam of light that will not kill
the player on touch.

v  •  d  •  e

Mechanics  
_ Portal  _

Chamberlock  ·  Emergency Intelligence Incinerator  ·  Electricity Field  ·
Flinging  ·  Goo  ·  Heavy Duty Super-Colliding Super Button  ·  High Energy
Pellet  ·  Material Emancipation Grill  ·  Pedestal Button  ·  Piston  ·
Portals  ·  Portal Spawner  ·  Surfaces  ·  Unstationary Scaffold  ·  Victory
Lift

Cubes

Weighted Companion  ·  Weighted Storage  
  
Tubes

Vital Apparatus Vent  
  
Unused content

Crushers  
  
_ Portal 2  _

Aerial Faith Plate  ·  Chamberlock  ·  Circuit Breaker  ·  Crushers  ·
Edgeless Safety Cube Receptacle  ·  Excursion Funnel  ·  Flinging  ·  Fire
Suppression System  ·  Goo  ·  Hard Light Bridge  ·  Heavy Duty Super-
Colliding Super Button  ·  Laser Field  ·  Material Emancipation Grill  ·
Panels  ·  Pedestal Button  ·  Ping Tool  ·  Piston  ·  Portals  ·  Portal
Spawner  ·  Shredder  ·  Surfaces  ·  Thermal Discouragement Beam  ·
Unstationary Scaffold  ·  Victory Lift

Cubes

Contraption Cube  ·  Discouragement Redirection  ·  Edgeless Safety  ·
Scalable Cube  ·  Weighted Companion  ·  Weighted Storage  
  
Tubes

Pneumatic Diversity Vent  ·  Vital Apparatus Vent  
  
Gels

Conversion  ·  Propulsion  ·  Repulsion  
  
Unused content

Adhesion Gel  ·  Reflection Gel  
  
Retrieved from "
https://theportalwiki.com/w/index.php?title=Unstationary_Scaffold&oldid=174752
"

