Wheatley  “

I'll wait--I'll wait one hour. Then I'll come back and, assuming I can locate
your dead body, I'll bury you. Alright? Brilliant! Go team! See you in an
hour! Hopefully! If you're not... dead.  

Click to listen

— **Wheatley**

”  
  
The **Intelligence Dampening Sphere** , more commonly  known as **Wheatley** ,
is a  personality core  of masculine programming and English West Country
accent who appears in the single-player campaign of _ Portal 2  _ .

He serves as the game's  deuteragonist  , guiding  Chell  through her efforts
in escaping the  Aperture Science  Enrichment Center.  However, half-way
through the game he and GLaDOS switch roles as she becomes Chell's
deuteragonist and Wheatley becomes the game's main antagonist.

Wheatley is voiced by British actor and comedian  Stephen Merchant  .

##  Contents

  * 1  Background 
  * 2  Overview 
    * 2.1  _Portal 2_
  * 3  Gallery 
  * 4  Trivia 
  * 5  References 
  * 6  See also 

##  Background

Wheatley was designed to be an Intelligence Dampening Sphere, one of the
cores  to be attached on GLaDOS in order to "generate an endless stream of
terrible ideas" and inhibit her mental abilities. Although it was never
explained, Wheatley was disconnected from her and given other jobs (it is
possible that he was replaced by the  Morality Core  ). Sometime before
GLaDOS  killed off the entire staff in the _ Portal 2: Lab Rat  _ comic using
neurotoxin, Wheatley had worked alongside staffs before he was put into
storage with other cores seen at the end of _ Portal  _ . After a few years,
though under unknown circumstances, he was put into deactivation along with
many other personality cores and kept in storage.

Thanks to  Chell  's havoc on the Enrichment Center via the destruction of
GLaDOS at the conclusion of _Portal_ , Wheatley and the rest of the cores were
reactivated in order to maintain the facility. Ironically, this backfired as
many cores appear to have been either killed off, gone insane (like the  Space
Sphere  ), or ran low on power.

Prior to the events of _Portal 2_ , Wheatley was put in charge of maintaining
the  Extended Relaxation Center  \- which houses test subjects in long-term
cryogenic stasis before and after they are put through the testing courses.
However, what he did to actually manage the entire wing remains unmentioned.
It was only until an unknown amount of time later that Wheatley decided to
escape the facility. To accomplish this, he attempted to gather help from any
remaining test subject that managed to last a long time after running out of
cryogenic supply. Luckily for him, Chell was one of them if not the only one
that lasted.

##  Overview

###  _Portal 2_

See also:  Portal 2  __

Wheatley's first appearance.

Wheatley is first seen during the very beginning of the game during the
chapter _The Courtesy Call_ , wherein he removes Chell from her Relaxation
Vault and puts her into one of the old testing tracks, so she can find a
Handheld Portal Device  and help him escape. After she acquires the device, he
meets up with her and detaches himself from his management rail to accompany
her to the now-ruined  Central AI Chamber  , so they can access an escape pod
to the surface. He uses his compatibility with the Enrichment Center's systems
to allow passage through a testing chamber's backstage.  When they reach the
ruined Central AI Chamber and he tries to activate the lights, he accidentally
reactivates  GLaDOS  instead. Wheatley is crushed by GLaDOS' pincers and
tossed to the side and Chell is placed back in GLaDOS' testing tracks.
However, he somehow survives and is placed back on his management rail, due to
an incident involving a bird (Wheatley attempts to explain the events of this
incident to Chell, but it is not heard in full).

Throughout Chapters 2, 3, 4, and 5, Wheatley observes Chell from behind the
scenes of the test chambers, trying to figure out a way to break her out.
Finally, at the end of Chapter 4, he is successful and they both escape into
the manufacturing section of Aperture, just before GLaDOS is about to kill
Chell. He hatches a plan to sabotage GLaDOS' turrets and neurotoxin, then
confront her, defeat her, and escape. They succeed in sabotaging GLaDOS'
turret  production line and  neurotoxin  generator.

Wheatley and his panels.  Wheatley having extracted GLaDOS into a potato
battery.  Wheatley.

Once this is done, Chell and Wheatley return to the Central AI Chamber through
the  Tubes  to confront GLaDOS. The  Announcer  detects GLaDOS as a corrupted
central core  and offers a core transfer. A stalemate is reached between
Wheatley and GLaDOS, and Chell has to push the Stalemate Resolution Button.
Once Chell does this, the core transfer commences. GLaDOS' head is removed
from her body and Wheatley is put in its place, putting him in control of the
facility. He summons an elevator for Chell to escape to the surface, but just
as the elevator is starting to rise, Wheatley grows corrupted with power and
lowers it back down. He says spitefully that all Chell does is boss him around
(Ironically, Chell never says a word in either game), but now _he_ is the boss
and she is at his mercy. Wheatley transfers GLaDOS' core programming to a
small computer chip powered by a potato battery as an attempt to humiliate
her. In her potato form, GLaDOS suddenly recognizes Wheatley's voice. She
tells him that he is an Intelligence Dampening Sphere, "producing an endless
stream of terrible ideas", essentially "designed to be a moron". In a fit of
rage, he accidentally knocks both her and Chell into the bottom of the
elevator shaft leading to the depths of the Enrichment Center, Old Aperture

The Enrichment Center during Wheatley's control.

After returning from Old Aperture, Chell and potato-GLaDOS learn that
Wheatley's moronic actions are causing the facility's reactor to approach a
nuclear meltdown because he consistently neglects the urgent warnings from the
Announcer  , instead preferring to think of ways to satisfy the testing
addiction he gets from inhabiting GLaDOS' body, which he calls "the itch". One
such (unsuccessful) endeavor is the creation of  Cube  /  Turret  hybrids, or
"  Frankenturrets  " designed to autonomously walk onto  buttons  . When
Wheatley discovers Chell and GLaDOS, GLaDOS attempts to overclock Wheatley's
processors by forcing him to interpret a paradox, but the attempt fails as he
isn't smart enough to even understand that it is a paradox at all, even his
Frankenturrets understand this paradox, as they are seen twitching and
sparking after the paradox is mentioned. When this attempt fails, Wheatley
puts Chell and GLaDOS into his own testing tracks (most of them stolen from
GLaDOS, and usually mashed together with other stolen tracks in a semi-failed
attempt to make new chambers.) As they go through the testing tracks, he
examines the rest of the Enrichment Center and discovers  Atlas  and  P-body
. Realizing he no longer needs Chell to continue testing, he sets a trap, with
which he can  crush  her to death. However, Chell evades his trap, escapes the
testing area, and prepares for the final confrontation with him.

When Chell arrives in Wheatley's chamber, Wheatley employs a four-part plan to
destroy her: no portal surfaces, start the  neurotoxin  immediately, bomb-
proof shields, and  bomb  launchers. This backfires, however, when Chell uses
a bomb to shatter a pipe of  Conversion Gel  , then uses this gel to redirect
bombs at Wheatley. Each bomb stuns Wheatley for long enough to attach a
corrupted core  onto him. Once this is done three times, Wheatley is corrupt
enough for the announcer to initiate a core transfer. A stalemate occurs once
more between Wheatley and GLaDOS, and Chell must press the stalemate
resolution button to finalize the transfer. However, Wheatley had booby
trapped it with explosives before the fight, as the fifth part of his plan,
and Chell is flung from the button. The explosion dislodges part of the
ceiling, exposing the night sky and the Moon. Chell shoots a portal onto the
Moon, causing both her and Wheatley to be sucked into space, both of them
holding onto the central core body in order to stay anchored on Earth. While
they are suspended here, the core transfer is completed. GLaDOS returns to her
original place as Central Core, knocks Wheatley off her body, and rescues
Chell. Wheatley flies off into space, accompanied by the  Space Sphere  .

Wheatley is last seen in the epilogue after the end credits, with the  Space
Core  orbiting him, where he wishes he could say he was sorry for all he did
to Chell.

